

--- Page: https://starfishholdings.com/torch-makes-washington-technology-top-100-government-contractors-list-for-fifth-year/ ---

Washington Technology recently released its annual “Top 100” list and Torch Technologies was ranked #59 of the Top 100. The list ranks the largest government contractors by their prime contract dollars in IT, professional services, telecommunications, and other high-tech service areas. Torch, a 100% employee-owned business, has made this list for the past five years, ranking #86 in 2015, #75 in 2016, #68 in 2017, #61 in 2018, and moved up two spots in this year’s ranking. Torch was the highest ranked Huntsville-headquartered company named to this year’s list. Torch completed 2018 with over $403M in total revenue.
Torch President John Watson stated, “On behalf of our employee-owners, we are honored that the confidence placed in us by our DoD customers has resulted in Torch being recognized for the fifth year as one of the largest professional services prime contractors to the Federal Government.”
See the complete list at
Washington Technology 2019 Top 100.

--- Page: https://starfishholdings.com/torch-technologies-named-one-of-the-countrys-best-workplaces-in-consulting-professional-services/ ---

Consulting firm Great Place to Work
®
and
Fortune
magazine have named Torch Technologies one of the country’s
20 Best Workplaces in Consulting & Professional Services
.
“As consulting and professional services evolve to tackle the people side of the business, the industry itself must raise its game,” says Michael C. Bush, CEO of Great Place to Work
®
. “The Best Workplaces in Consulting & Professional Services get this, have built great workplace cultures and are seeing a payoff in business results.”
The 20 Best Workplaces in Consulting & Professional Services stand out from their peers for work environments that are particularly free of favoritism, well-managed, democratic and fair when it comes to profit sharing and pay. And these leading employers get a “return” for their great cultures. The list winners—who outperformed roughly 70 industry peers in our ranking–enjoy higher levels of cooperation, loyalty and employee willingness to go the extra mile. The Best Workplaces in Consulting & Professional Services also are growing at a faster clip than peers.
“Our company’s success depends on the talent, loyalty, and enthusiasm of our people,” says Torch President John Watson. “As a result, we consciously work to build a healthy culture that brings out the best in our employee-owners. We’re thrilled that our employees rate our workplace highly, and that Great Place to Work
®
and
Fortune
are recognizing our uniquely positive culture.”
Torch Technologies
and the other winning companies were selected based on anonymous responses to the Trust Index
®
, Great Place to Work
®
’s employee assessment survey. Employees assessed the levels of trust, pride and camaraderie they experience in their workplace.
The Best Workplaces in Consulting & Professional Services is one of a
series of rankings
by Great Place to Work
®
and
Fortune
based upon employee survey feedback from Great Place to Work®-certified organizations.

--- Page: https://starfishholdings.com/starfish-holdings-promotes-joe-pierce-to-coo/ ---

Pierce to Lead Communications, Human Resources, and IT Functions
HUNTSVILLE, Ala., February 4, 2025 – Starfish Holdings (Starfish), the parent company of Torch Technologies, Freedom Real Estate and Capital, LLC and SIMVANA today announced that Joe Pierce has been promoted to Chief Operating Officer (COO) effective immediately. In this role, Pierce will be responsible for Communications, Human Resources, and Information Technology at the enterprise level.
“Joe is a proven leader,” said Starfish CEO John Watson. “Communications, Human Resources, and Information Technology are critical functions across our multi-company enterprise. Joe will provide the day-to-day leadership needed to help our management team deliver world-class programs across our family of companies.”
Pierce joined Starfish in 2024 as CIO. He is a seasoned professional with over 35 years of experience with companies supporting Department of Defense programs including McDonnell Douglas, Boeing, Lockheed Martin, Teledyne Brown Engineering, and Teledyne Technologies. He joined Starfish in 2024 from Teledyne Technologies, where he served in senior leadership roles in Human Resources, Information Technology, Procurement, and Continuous Improvement. Pierce holds a bachelor’s degree in Electrical Engineering Technology from Murray State University.
About Starfish Holdings
Starfish Holdings, Inc. (Starfish) is the parent company of Torch Technologies, Freedom Real Estate & Capital, LLC, and SIMVANA. The company is an S corporation owned by the Starfish Employee Stock Ownership Plan (ESOP) and Trust with a focus on growing the retirement portfolios of the employee-owners of its subsidiaries. Starfish is committed to remaining an Evergreen enterprise through sustainable processes, ensuring employee ownership and financial well-being, supporting community well-being, and enabling customer and partner success, all while operating with integrity. To learn more, visit
starfishholdings.com
.

--- Page: https://starfishholdings.com/torch-team-continues-to-grow-in-support-of-the-2017-liz-hurley-ribbon-run/ ---

Torch employee-owners and their families were proud to again participate in the Liz Hurley Ribbon Run on Saturday, October 21
st
. As Torch continues to grow as a company, so does their participation in this event, and this year had a team of 69 participants including Torch employee-owners, family, and friends, who raised a total of $9,305 for the Liz Hurley Breast Cancer Fund at the Huntsville Hospital Foundation. The Torch team has enjoyed seeing the growth in participation each year, and is looking forward to continuing to grow the participation numbers and donation amount for next year’s event. So far, this year’s event has raised more than $300,000 to fund a 3D tomosynthesis mammography machine. The Huntsville Breast Center sees over 42,000 women and men per year, making the additional machine a necessity for easier breast cancer detection.

--- Page: https://starfishholdings.com/torch-team-raises-63k-for-2019-huntsville-heart-and-stroke-walk/ ---

2019 Torch Heart Walk Team
Torch employee-owners have a heart for giving back to their
communities, and this year’s Huntsville Heart Walk was an example of their
heart for helping others. Through
Torch Helps, Torch in Action, and Torch corporate charitable giving and
company-sponsored events, Torch employee-owners and families have set a high
standard for involvement and community outreach. Torch employee-owners’ participation
in the American Heart Association (AHA) Huntsville Heart and Stroke Walk
continued this year, with Torch’s co-founder, Bill Roark, co-chairing the 2019
Huntsville Heart Walk. The Torch Team had 150 members and Torch employee-owners,
family, and friends joined the Torch Team on Saturday, April 13
th
in
downtown Huntsville for the annual event. The Torch Team was the largest team,
and the top fundraising company, raising $63,000 through 196 donations and contributing
to the more than $510,000 that was raised by AHA during the walk. This year,
Torch’s CEO and Co-Founder Bill Roark was the Heart Walk’s Top Executive Fundraiser,
and a Torch employee-owner, Debbie Overcash, was the Top Individual Fundraiser.
Like Torch, this event continues to grow each year, and we are proud to be a
part of it!

--- Page: https://starfishholdings.com/the-torch-team-supports-the-2017-aha-north-alabama-heart-walk/ ---

At Torch, our employee-owners have a heart for their communities. Through Torch Helps, Torch In Action, and Torch corporate charitable giving and company-sponsored events, Torch employee-owners and families have set a high standard for involvement and community outreach. Torch employee-owners’ record-setting participation in the American Heart Association (AHA) North Alabama Heart Walk continued this year. The Torch Team had 119 participants and Torch employee-owners, family and friends joined the Torch Team on Saturday, April 8th in downtown Huntsville for the annual event. The Torch Team raised more than $15,000 through 110 donations and was the highest fundraising team for the second consecutive year, contributing to the more than $316,000 that was raised by AHA during the walk. This year, Torch’s CEO and Co-Founder Bill Roark was the Heart Walk’s Top Individual Fundraiser for the second consecutive year. Like Torch, this event continues to grow each year, and we are happy to be a part of it!

--- Page: https://starfishholdings.com/asme-names-torch-outstanding-mechanical-engineering-firm/ ---

Torch Technologies is proud to announce it has been chosen by the American Society of Mechanical Engineers (ASME), North Alabama Section (NAS), as the Outstanding Mechanical Engineering Firm for 2018. In selecting the firm of the year, the NAS considers engineering accomplishment, milestones, research, and contracts that impact the Huntsville/Tennessee Valley.
Torch President John Watson stated, “We are honored to receive this recognition during Engineers Week, and we have our employee-owners to thank for our continued success. Our engineers continue to strive to deliver outstanding solutions and technologies to our customer, and we take great pride in the work that we do supporting the Warfighter.”

--- Page: https://starfishholdings.com/torch-technologies-wins-188m-ssdd-models-and-simulations-program-support-task-order/ ---

Torch Technologies is pleased to announce it was awarded the $188M EXPRESS Task Order for “Models and Simulations Program Support” for the U.S. Army Aviation and Missile Research Development and Engineering Center (AMRDEC), System Simulation and Development Directorate (SSDD). Torch’s award provides technical services in support of planning, execution, analysis, reporting, and system evaluation for the Test and Continuous Evaluation (CE) of the Ballistic Missile Defense System. SSDD is the premier organization delivering collaborative and innovative engineering solutions in the areas of system design, development, integration, analysis, and modeling & simulation to advance Aviation, Missile, and Defense capabilities.
The work to be completed by Torch and its highly experienced team will be primarily conducted in Huntsville, AL and Colorado Springs, CO. The Task Order has a 5 year period of performance with a one year option. “In this era of tightening budgets and broadening threats, models and simulations provide a cost effective means of performance assessment and training enhancement,” Torch President John Watson said. “We are honored to have been selected again to lead the contractor team to support SSDD’s Models and Simulation Program Support Mission.”

--- Page: https://starfishholdings.com/torch-ranked-on-inc-5000-list-for-11th-consecutive-year/ ---

Torch Technologies
is proud to announce it has been ranked on the
Inc. 5000 list
for the eleventh consecutive year. Ranked at #3,479 this year, Torch is the only Huntsville-based company that has been on the list for 11 consecutive years, and one of only two companies in Alabama to make the list 11 or more years.
Inc.
Media President and Editor in Chief remarked, “Of the tens of thousands of companies that have applied to the Inc. 5000 over the years, only a fraction have made the list more than once. A mere tenth of a percent have made the list 11 times.”
Torch continues to maintain consistent growth, posting revenue growth of 90 percent in the three-year measurement period. Of the 24 Huntsville companies on this year’s list, Torch had the highest revenue for 2016 with $293.7M.
Torch President John Watson stated, “Torch’s continued success can be attributed to the dedication of our employee-owners to our company, to our customers, and to the Warfighter. Fortunately, this dedication has resulted in constant growth and opportunities for our employee-owners.”

--- Page: https://starfishholdings.com/torch-a-finalist-for-top-tiger-awards-3/ ---

At the third annual Top Tiger event held on March 30
th
and 31
st
by the Auburn University Raymond J. Harbert College of Business, Business Alabama magazine, and Warren Averett, Torch Technologies was awarded fourth in the large business category. Qualifying companies must have been founded, owned or led by an Auburn Alumni and awards were selected based on a percentage of revenue growth over the past three years.
Torch was in the large business category with more than $35M in annual revenue. The event was part of the Auburn Entrepreneurial Summit which also included the student entrepreneurial contest (Tiger Cage), and Auburn Entrepreneur Hall of Fame induction dinner. Top companies, including Torch, will be featured in Business Alabama.

--- Page: https://starfishholdings.com/torch-selected-as-a-best-place-to-work/ ---

Torch Technologies is proud to announce that it has once again been recognized as one of the “Best Places to Work” in Huntsville/Madison County. Torch was honored as a “
Best Place to Work
” in the x-large business category of 251+ local employees at the tenth annual Best Places to Work awards luncheon on Tuesday, March 21.
The program, held at the Von Braun Center North Hall, was hosted by the Chamber of Commerce of Huntsville/Madison County. More than 80 companies were nominated, and 15 were named as the “Best Places to Work.” This is the fourth time Torch has been named a “Best Place to Work” by the Chamber of Commerce of Huntsville/Madison County, receiving recognition in 2008, 2012 and again in 2016.
Quantum Workplace, a national company that specializes in measuring workplace satisfaction, measured and selected companies based on the following criteria: team effectiveness, retention probability, alignment with goals, trust with co-workers, individual contribution, manager effectiveness, trust in senior leaders, feeling valued, work engagement and people practices. The selections were based solely on anonymous employee survey inputs, and the top three companies from each category were awarded.
Torch President John Watson said, “We are honored to be recognized as a Best Place to Work in Huntsville/Madison County for the second consecutive year. Great companies are made up of great people. Thank you to all of our employee-owners who truly make Torch the best place to work.”

--- Page: https://starfishholdings.com/torch-technologies-named-to-2018-entrepreneur-360-list/ ---

Torch Technologies was recognized today for the second consecutive
year as one of the “Best Entrepreneurial Companies in America” by
Entrepreneur
magazine’s
Entrepreneur360™ List
, a premier study delivering the most comprehensive analysis of
private companies in America. Based on this study forged by
Entrepreneur
, Torch is recognized as a
well-rounded company that has mastered a balance of impact, innovation, growth,
leadership, and value. Torch ranked #11 out of 360 organizations this year, up
from #16 last year.
“We are proud to have again been recognized by
Entrepreneur
magazine for our unique
approach to innovation, growth, leadership, and culture,” says Torch President
John Watson. “Our continued success as a 100% employee-owned company is thanks to
our employee-owners. We are fortunate to be part of a growing group of
exceptional people who are innovative and bright, and who make Torch a great
place to work.”
“Our annual evaluation of vetted data offers a 360-degree analysis of top privately-held companies across a multitude of industries,” explains Jason Feifer, editor in chief of Entrepreneur Magazine. “They are deemed successful not only by revenue numbers, but by how well-rounded they are. The companies that make the list have pushed boundaries with their innovative ideas, fostered strong company cultures, impacted their communities for the better, and increased their brand awareness.”
Honorees were identified based on the results from a comprehensive
study of independently- owned companies, using a proprietary algorithm and
other advanced analytics. The algorithm was built on a balanced scorecard
designed to measure five metrics reflecting major pillars of
entrepreneurship—innovation, growth, leadership, impact, and business valuation.
For additional details on the E360 List and the companies
recognized, visit:
entrepreneur.com/360

--- Page: https://starfishholdings.com/torch-makes-bloomberg-government-top-200-list-for-2nd-year/ ---

Bloomberg Government recently released its annual “BGOV200” list and Torch Technologies was ranked #155 of the Top 200. The list ranks the top federal contractors based on prime contracts awarded in fiscal 2017. Torch, a 100% employee-owned small business, made the list for the first time last year, ranked #157. Torch was one of five Alabama companies named to the list in 2018, and the highest ranked of three Huntsville headquartered companies on this year’s list.
Torch President John Watson stated, “We are proud that Torch has been included on the Bloomberg Government list of the top federal contractors for the second consecutive year, and we continue to strive to provide the best and most cost-efficient services and solutions to our government customers in support of the Warfighter.”
See the complete list at
BGOV200.

--- Page: https://starfishholdings.com/torch-technologies-breaks-ground-on-new-lab-and-solutions-facility/ ---

Today Torch Technologies announced a major construction project to build a Technology Integration and Prototyping Center. The announcement was celebrated with a groundbreaking event at the site of the new facility with dignitaries Governor Kay Ivey, Congressman Mo Brooks, and Mayor Tommy Battle speaking at the event. Torch’s sister company, Freedom Real Estate & Capital, LLC, recently acquired the land located on the corner of Chris Dr. and Vermont Rd. Torch has partnered with Freedom Real Estate & Capital to develop the property and Torch will serve as the anchor tenant of the new facility. The project development partners include Matheny Goldmon Architecture and Turner Construction.
The construction will include the construction of a new 35,000+ SF lab and solutions facility. Construction of this new building will allow Torch to undertake projects of greater complexity, “ranging from developing instruments that will completely change how warhead testing is accomplished to re-engineering products that protect our nation,” said Torch President John Watson.
The groundbreaking event took place at the lot on the corner of Chris Dr. and Vermont Rd. Next, a reception followed at The Freedom Center located at 4090 South Memorial Parkway. John Watson stated, “As a native Alabamian – born and raised in rural South Alabama, educated at Auburn in Central Alabama, and working a large portion of my career in North Alabama – I am sincerely thankful for the partnership that we have with the city and state, as we all work together to improve the standard of living in our community.”

--- Page: https://starfishholdings.com/torch-receives-top-tiger-award-for-fourth-year/ ---

At the fourth annual Top Tiger event held on April 6
th
by the Auburn University Raymond J. Harbert College of Business, Business Alabama magazine, and Warren Averett, Torch Technologies came in third in the large business category. Qualifying companies must have been founded, owned or led by an Auburn Alumni and awards were selected based on a percentage of revenue growth over the past three years.
Torch was in the large business category with more than ($20M) in annual revenue. This is the fourth consecutive year that Torch has been recognized as one of the fastest-growing companies founded, owned, or led by Auburn University alumni. Top companies, including Torch, will be featured in Business Alabama.
See the full listing and rankings of the
2018 honorees
.

--- Page: https://starfishholdings.com/torch-technologies-ranked-on-inc-5000-list-for-9th-consecutive-year/ ---

Torch Technologies, an employee-owned technology services and solutions company headquartered in Huntsville, is proud to announce it has been ranked on the Inc. 5000 list for the ninth consecutive year. Ranked at #2,889 this year, Torch is the only Huntsville company with a 2014 revenue of more than $100 million and had the highest revenue in 2014 among all Huntsville industries. Torch also had the highest annual revenue in 2014 of all Government Services industry companies in Alabama and was in the top 3 highest annual revenues in Government Services in the country.
Torch continues to maintain consistent growth, adding 126 new jobs in the 3-year measurement period, putting Torch in the top 3 Government Services companies in Huntsville. Companies making the list for five or more consecutive years are recognized on the Inc. Honor Roll, and this is Torch’s fifth straight year of Honor Roll recognition. Torch is the largest company by revenue in the state to have received this honor. Torch has the longest sustained growth in Huntsville, as the only company that has been on the list nine consecutive years, with no Huntsville companies maintaining a longer streak. Torch is also one of only four companies in Alabama that has been on the list nine consecutive years.
Torch President John Watson stated, “Torch has always been focused on providing outstanding engineering services and solutions to the warfighter at good value. Fortunately, this has resulted in continued growth and opportunities for our employee-owners.”

--- Page: https://starfishholdings.com/1404-2/ ---

At Torch Technologies, our growth wouldn’t be possible without the dedication of our employee-owners. We’re proud of our team, and we’re also excited to announce our organization has been named one of the 2017 Best Small & Medium Workplaces by Great Place to Work and FORTUNE.
This
ranking
considered 74,000 surveys from employees at hundreds of businesses in all sectors of the economy. Torch earned a spot on this list based on our employees’ assessment of the camaraderie, leadership, fairness, rewards and career opportunities enjoyed by all in our workplace. Torch ranked #14 among the winning medium organizations.
“At Torch, we are proud of the unique culture that we have created. With a company culture that benefits our employee-owners, we also ultimately benefit our customers, our community, and the warfighter,” says Torch President John Watson. “We know we have our employee-owners to thank for our continued success as a 100% employee-owned company. We are fortunate to be a part of a growing group of talented people who make our company a great place to work.”
Outstanding small and mid-sized employers – as identified by their employees – are substantially more likely to report work experiences linked to retention, innovation and good customer service, according to research by Great Place to Work. The winning organizations also are more likely than their peers to maintain a healthy organizational culture as they grow larger and more complex.
“The Best Small & Medium workplaces are laying the groundwork for future success by building trust, cooperation and leadership credibility. All of these enhance business performance and create a positive environment for doing business,” said Michael Bush, CEO of Great Place to Work.
The Best Small & Medium Workplaces is one of a
series of rankings by Great Place to Work
and FORTUNE based on research into employee feedback from Great Place to Work-Certified™ organizations. Torch also was ranked as a Best Medium Workplace by Great Place to Work and FORTUNE in 2016, as well as a Best Workplace for Consulting & Professional Services in 2016 and 2017.
About the Best Small & Medium Workplaces
The ranking was based on anonymous feedback from more than 74,000 employees working at Great Place to Work-Certified organizations. Employees completed a Trust Index™ survey with more than 50 questions assessing pride, camaraderie, executive effectiveness, innovation, benefits, professional development and other elements of a great workplace. Scores also considered organizations’ performance relative to their size and industry, as well as their ability to provide a great workplace for all employees, regardless of who they are or what they do. Survey results from eligible companies had a 6 percent margin of error, at most, with a 95 percent confidence level. Organizations with 10 to 99 employees were considered for the small workplaces list and those with 100-999 employees were considered for the medium list.
To find out more about becoming Great Place to Work-Certified and eligible for Best Workplaces lists published with FORTUNE, visit
Greatplacetowork.com
.

--- Page: https://starfishholdings.com/torch-selected-as-a-best-place-to-work-2/ ---

Torch Technologies is proud to announce that it has once again been recognized as one of the “Best Places to Work” in Huntsville/Madison County. Torch was honored as a “Best Place to Work” in the large business category at the ninth annual Best Places to Work awards luncheon on Thursday, March 31st.
The program, held at the Jackson Center, was hosted by the Chamber of Commerce of Huntsville/Madison County. More than 200 companies were nominated, and 20 were named as the “Best Places to Work.” This is the third time Torch has been named a “Best Place to Work” by the Chamber of Commerce of Huntsville/Madison County, receiving recognition in 2008 and again in 2012.
The 2016 Best Places to Work award winners were Micro (10-20 employees): EnVention, LLC, H2L Solutions, Haufe, Inc., R2C Support Services, Tuba Group, Inc.; Small (21 to 35 employees): F1 Solutions, Inc., Good Samaritan Hospice of Madison, IERUS Technologies Inc., Nesin Therapy Services, PC, Troy 7, Inc.; Medium (36 to 149 employees): Cepeda Systems and Software Analysis, Five Stones Research Corporation, Integration Innovation, Inc. (i3), IronMountain Solutions, Inc., QTEC, Inc.; Large (150+ employees): Intuitive Research and Technology Corporation, Modern Technology Solutions, Inc. (MTSI) PeopleTec, Inc.,
Torch Technologies
, and AEgis Technologies Group.
Quantum Workplace, a national company that specializes in measuring workplace satisfaction, measured and selected companies based on the following criteria: team effectiveness, retention probability, alignment with goals, trust with co-workers, individual contribution, manager effectiveness, trust in senior leaders, feeling valued, work engagement and people practices. The selections were based solely on anonymous employee survey inputs, and the top five companies from each category were awarded.
Torch President John Watson said, “We are incredibly proud to be recognized as a Best Place to Work in Huntsville/Madison County. I truly feel like a winner every day because I get the opportunity to work with the most generous, talented, and diverse group of people. Thank you to all of our employee owners who truly make Torch the best place to work.”

--- Page: https://starfishholdings.com/torch-employees-families-support-the-2016-liz-hurley-ribbon-run/ ---

For Torch Technologies, community involvement is an invaluable part of the company culture. Through Torch Helps, Torch In Action, corporate charitable giving, and company-sponsored events, Torch employee-owners and their families have set a high standard for involvement and community outreach. Torch employee-owners and their families came out in impressive numbers on Saturday, October 15th, to support the Liz Hurley Breast Cancer Fund at Huntsville Hospital Foundation. Torch had a team of 42 participants including Torch employee-owners, family, and friends, who raised a total of $8,740 for the fund. The Torch team was happy to be a part of this event as the second highest fundraising team, and is looking forward to growing the participation numbers and donation amount for next year’s event. So far, this year’s event has raised more than $247,000 to fund a biopsy system that will be used in conjunction with the 3D mammography that they purchased using the 2015 Ribbon Run funding, as well as to provide an ultrasound machine that will enhance screening capabilities.

--- Page: https://starfishholdings.com/torch-makes-washington-technology-top-100-government-contractors-list-for-fourth-year/ ---

Washington Technology recently released its annual “Top 100” list and Torch Technologies was ranked #61 of the Top 100. The list ranks the largest government contractors by their prime contract dollars in IT, systems integrations, telecommunications, engineering and professional services. Torch, a 100% employee-owned small business, has made this list for the past four years, ranking #86 in 2015, #75 in 2016, #68 in 2017, and moved up 7 spots in this year’s ranking. Torch was the highest ranked Huntsville-headquartered company named to this year’s list. Torch completed 2017 with over $348M in total revenue.
Torch President John Watson stated, “On behalf of our employee-owners, we are honored by the continued confidence of our services and solutions DoD customers that has resulted in Torch being recognized for the fourth year as one of the largest professional services prime contractors to the Federal Government.”
See the complete list at
Washington Technology 2018 Top 100
.

--- Page: https://starfishholdings.com/torch-makes-washington-technology-top-100-government-contractors-list-for-sixth-year/ ---

Washington Technology recently released its annual “Top 100” list and Torch Technologies was ranked #54 of the Top 100. The list ranks the largest government contractors by their prime contract dollars in IT, telecommunications, consulting, professional services, engineering and other technology driven products and services.  Torch, a 100% employee owned business, has made this list for the past six years, ranking #86 in 2015, #75 in 2016, #68 in 2017, #61 in 2018, #59 in 2019, and moved up five spots in this year’s ranking. Torch was the highest ranked Huntsville-headquartered company named to this year’s list. Torch completed 2019 with over $513M in total revenue.
Torch President and CEO John Watson stated, “On behalf of our employee-owners, we are honored that the confidence placed in us by our services and solutions DoD customers has resulted in Torch being recognized for the sixth year as one of the largest professional services prime contractors to the Federal Government.”
See the complete list at
Washington Technology 2020 Top 100.

--- Page: https://starfishholdings.com/torch-wins-10m-wargames-simulation-scenario-development-wssd-task-order/ ---

Torch Technologies is pleased to announce it was awarded the $10M D3I Domain 2 – Wargames, Simulation & Scenario Development (WSSD) Task Order. Torch’s award provides study, wargame, experimentation, and analysis support to the Space and Missile Defense Command’s Future Warfare Center.
The work to be completed by the Torch team has a 2.5-year period of performance and will be completed in Huntsville, AL; Colorado Springs, CO; and El Paso, TX. “We are excited to have been awarded the first competitive D3I Domain 2 Task Order, cementing our commitment as a new Prime contractor to the Space and Missile Defense Command,” Torch President John Watson said. “We look forward to providing Wargames and Simulation support to the Future Warfare Center.”

--- Page: https://starfishholdings.com/torch-technologies-wins-504m-d3i-contract/ ---

Torch Technologies is pleased to announce it was awarded the $504M U.S. Army Space and Missile Defense Command (SMDC)/Army Strategic Command (ARSTRAT) “Design, Development, Demonstration, and Integration” (D3I) contract. Torch’s award focuses on the Domain 2 Program to provide information integration and data exploitation solutions to support the Warfighter. USASMDC/ARSTRAT serves as the Army force modernization proponent for space, high altitude and global missile defense; conducts space and missile defense operations; provides planning, integration, control and coordination of Army forces and capabilities in support of U.S. Strategic Command missions; provides research and development of material solutions as well as combat development solutions in support of the Prompt Global Strike and air and missile defense missions; and conducts mission-related research and development in support of Army Title 10 responsibilities.
The work to be completed by Torch and its team members will be primarily conducted in Huntsville, AL and Colorado Springs, CO. The ID/IQ contract has a five year base period with two option periods of two years each. “We are very excited about the D3I program. We are making major investments into our facilities and laboratories as we expand our emphasis on integration,” Torch President John Watson said, “and we look forward to working with SMDC/ARSTRAT to bring new and cost effective capabilities to the Warfighter.”

--- Page: https://starfishholdings.com/torch-wins-usasmdc-arstrat-decision-support-to/ ---

Torch Technologies is pleased to announce it was awarded the $112M Decision Support Task Order under USASMDC/ARSTRAT’s Systems Engineering and Technical Assistance Support (SETAS) umbrella program on the OASIS SB Contract. Torch’s award provides support to the Decision Support Directorate of the U.S. Army Space and Missile Defense Command /Army Forces Strategic Command (USASMDC/ARSTRAT), Future Warfare Center in the areas of operational analysis execution to include data mining and assessment; exercise, experimentation and war-gaming preparation, participation and data assessment; and campaign/theater-level modeling and simulation (M&S) development, sustainment, and execution. Key areas to be supported include Integrated Air and Missile Defense (IAMD), Space, Space Superiority, High Altitude and Cyberspace Operations.
This is a three-year ordering period base with two additional one-year options resulting in a potential five-year Task Order that will be executed by the Torch team predominantly in Huntsville, the National Capital Region, and Colorado Springs. “The OASIS SETAS Decision Support Task Order allows Torch to provide and expand upon our current operational analysis and modeling and simulation support for SMDC’s Decision Support Directorate and their customers,” Torch President John Watson said.  “We are honored and look forward to further strengthening our partnership with SMDC as we execute this critical effort.”

--- Page: https://starfishholdings.com/torch-technologies-wins-the-2015-north-alabama-better-business-bureau-torch-award/ ---

Torch Technologies has been awarded the coveted North Alabama Better Business Bureau’s Torch Award for Marketplace Ethics in the Government Contractor category for 2015.
Presented annually, the BBB Torch Award honors businesses that demonstrate exceedingly high standards of behavior toward customers, employees, suppliers, shareholders and communities; adherence to truthful and honorable advertising and sales practices; and an earned reputation for noteworthy contributions to their industries and the communities in which they do business.
The Torch Award is designed to promote not only the importance of ethical business practices, but the willingness and efforts made by outstanding businesses to ensure that our country’s marketplace remains fair and honorable for all Americans.
Candidates for the Torch Award were evaluated by an independent panel of judges from the business and academic community against the following criteria:
High ethical standards of behavior toward customers, suppliers, shareholders, employees, and communities in which they do business;
Demonstrated ethical practices surrounding their buyer/seller relationships;
Longstanding history/reputation of ethical practices in the marketplace (minimum 3 years in business);
Marketing, advertising, communications, and sales practices which reflect a true representation of what is being offered in the marketplace;
Acknowledgment of ethical marketplace practices by industry peers and in the communities where they do business;
Ethics policies that are effectively communicated to employees;
Ethics policies that are designed to give long-term value to shareholders, customers, etc.
Training programs that assist employees in carrying out established ethics policies.
Torch Technologies is the only company to be a three-time recipient of the Torch Award, having also won this award in the Mid-size Company category in 2005 and the Large-size Company category in 2009.

--- Page: https://starfishholdings.com/torch-wins-3-8m-aviation-systems-project-management-office-and-aviation-ground-support-equipment-product-management-office-support-task-order/ ---

Torch Technologies is pleased to announce it was awarded the $3.8M Technical Services Support for Aviation Systems (AS) Project Management Office (PMO) and the Aviation Ground Support Equipment (AGSE) Product Management Office (PMO) Task Order. Torch’s award provides for technical support to the AGSE PMO necessary to implement the acquisition, test and evaluation, production, deployment, and logistics strategies for the AGSE systems.
The work to be completed by Torch and teammates has a 5-year period of performance and will be completed primarily in Huntsville. “Aviation ground support equipment is a critical component for maintaining and repairing Army aircraft,” Torch President John Watson said. “We are excited to have been selected to help AGSE PMO continue its crucial mission of bringing lifecycle technology solutions to soldiers in the field who enable continued fleet readiness.”

--- Page: https://starfishholdings.com/9th-annual-torch-golf-tournament-raises-50k-for-village-of-promise/ ---

Torch Technologies hosted its 9
th
annual golf
tournament on Friday, September 20 at the RTJ Golf Trail at Hampton Cove. The
golf tournament hosted 240 players (max capacity) who played on both the River
Course and the Highlands Course this year. All proceeds from the event benefited
the Village of Promise and its mission to eradicate generational poverty one neighborhood
at a time. The Village of Promise helps children of all ages receive support to
help them achieve educational success from early childhood in their Infant
University program to college and beyond.
The tournament began with an 8:30 shotgun start at the RTJ Golf Trail at Hampton Cove. 60 teams participated in the tournament, enjoying a beautiful day of golf while helping children of all ages receive support to help them achieve educational success- from early childhood in their Infant University program to college and beyond. Through the donations of the players, sponsors, and a contribution from Torch, Torch was pleased to present Cofounder Bobbie Bradley and Executive Director Dr. Rachel Ballard with a check for $57,500 to benefit Village of Promise programs.
President John Watson stated, “We believe in
giving back to the communities where our employee-owners live and work. By
investing in the future of the children in our community, we aim to raise the
standard of living for everyone. We are so grateful to our sponsors, participants,
and volunteers for sharing that vision with us. We were excited to be able to grow
last year’s donation of $37,500 that is going to Village of Promise programs.
We look forward to continuing our partnership with Village of Promise in
support of their invaluable programs.”
Village of Promise
– Village of Promise
serves the needs of children and families from cradle to college to career in
distressed neighborhoods. Education, health, enrichment programs and family
support services are simply what they do to help each child succeed in school.
Their initial efforts are focused in the neighborhood surrounding University
Place Elementary School, Montview Elementary School, Westlawn Middle School and
Butler High School. To learn more about the Village of Promise go to
www.villagepromise.com

--- Page: https://starfishholdings.com/8th-annual-golf-tournament-benefiting-village-of-promise-a-continued-success/ ---

Torch Technologies hosted its 8
th
annual golf
tournament on Friday, September 14 at the RTJ Golf Trail at Hampton Cove. The
golf tournament hosted 240 players (max capacity) who played on both the River
Course and the Highlands Course this year. All proceeds from the event benefited
the Village of Promise and its mission to eradicate generational poverty one
neighborhood at a time. The Village of Promise helps children of all ages receive
support to help them achieve educational success from early childhood in their Infant
University program to college and beyond.
The tournament began with an 8:30 shotgun start at the RTJ Golf
Trail at Hampton Cove. 60 teams participated in the tournament, enjoying a beautiful
day of golf while helping children of all ages receive support to help them
achieve educational success- from early childhood in their Infant University
program to college and beyond. Through the donations of the players, sponsors,
and a contribution from Torch, Torch was pleased to present Cofounder Bobbie
Bradley and Executive Director Dr. Rachel Ballard with a check for $37, 500 to
benefit Village of Promise programs.
President John Watson stated, “At Torch, we
believe in giving back to the communities where our employees live and work. By
investing in the future of the children in our community, we aim to raise the
standard of living for everyone. We are so grateful to our sponsors, participants,
and volunteers for sharing that vision with us. We were excited to be able to grow
last year’s donation of $35,000 that is going to Village of Promise programs.
We look forward to continuing our partnership with Village of Promise in
support of their invaluable programs.”
Village of Promise
– Village of Promise
serves the needs of children and families from cradle to college to career in
distressed neighborhoods. Education, health, enrichment programs and family
support services are simply what they do to help each child succeed in school.
Their initial efforts are focused in the neighborhood surrounding University Place
Elementary School, Montview Elementary School, Westlawn Middle School and
Butler High School. To learn more about the Village of Promise go to
www.villagepromise.com

--- Page: https://starfishholdings.com/torch-wins-62m-teams-test-provisioning-contract/ ---

Torch Technologies is pleased to announce it was awarded the $62M Technical, Engineering, Advisory, and Management Support (TEAMS) Test Provisioning advisory and assistance services contract. Torch’s award provides the Missile Defense Agency with engineering support for Flight Test Provisioning, Ground Test Provisioning, Test Infrastructure, and Advanced Technology.
The work to be completed by Torch has a 5-year period of performance. “This is an exciting award for Torch Technologies and our employee-owners,” Torch President John Watson said. “Support to the Missile Defense Agency is extremely important to Torch. We are honored to have been selected to support the MDA Test Provisioning effort.”

--- Page: https://starfishholdings.com/great-place-to-work-and-fortune-name-torch-technologies-one-of-2018s-best-small-medium-workplaces-for-third-consecutive-year/ ---

Great Place to Work and FORTUNE have again honored Torch Technologies as one of the
2018 Best Small & Medium Workplaces
. The ranking considered more than 158,000 employee surveys from small and medium-sized companies. Great Place to Work, a global people analytics and consulting firm, evaluated more than 50 elements of team members’ experience on the job. These included the extent to which employees trust leaders, the respect with which people are treated, the fairness of workplace decisions, and how much camaraderie there is among the team. Rankings are based on employees’ feedback and reward companies who best include all employees, no matter who they are or what they do for the organization. Torch Technologies took the No. 6 spot on the
Best Medium Workplaces
list.
“We are proud of the culture that we have created and been able to maintain at Torch. Our healthy company culture benefits our employee-owners, and thus ultimately benefits our customers, our community, and the warfighter,” says Torch President John Watson. “As a 100% employee-owned company, our continued success is because of our loyal and dedicated employee-owners who make our company a great place to work.”
The Best Small & Medium Workplaces stand out for excelling in the industry’s rapidly-changing marketplace. With Torch’s continued growth and success also comes additional responsibility to maintain that culture within the company. Torch has implemented many new programs and resources to educate and empower its employee-owners. One example includes Society of Torch Emerging Professionals (STEPs), an organization founded in response to the rapid growth at Torch. STEPs, with its members, fosters a sense of cohesion across business units and groups, provides professional development opportunities through panels and speakers, provides opportunities for community service and outreach through volunteering and hosting drives for local nonprofit organizations, and provides an avenue for social networking and a sense of community through hosted events.
“When it comes to revenue growth and innovation, the 2018 Best Small & Medium Workplaces continue to outperform their peers making these companies more competitive and helping them secure their position in the marketplace,”
said Michael Bush, CEO of Great Place to Work.
“What these companies do differently than their peers is that they offer a great workplace for all employees, regardless of role or personal traits.”
The Best Small & Medium Workplaces list is one of a
series of rankings by Great Place to Work
and FORTUNE based on employee feedback from Great Place to Work-Certified™ organizations. Torch Technologies also was ranked as a Best Medium Workplace by Great Place to Work and FORTUNE in 2016 and 2017, as well as a Best Workplace for Consulting & Professional Services in 2016, 2017, and 2018. Additionally, Torch was ranked as a Best Workplace for Millennials in 2018.

--- Page: https://starfishholdings.com/starfish-holdings-announces-changes-to-management-team/ ---

Roark moves to Chairman of the Board and Watson promoted to CEO
John Watson
HUNTSVILLE, Ala., April 3, 2024 – Starfish Holdings (Starfish), the parent company of Torch Technologies (Torch), Freedom Real Estate & Capital, LLC (Freedom), and SIMVANA today announced that Co-Founder and CEO Bill Roark has stepped down as CEO and has assumed the role of Chairman of the Board. Starfish President John Watson has been promoted to CEO.
Bill Roark
Roark’s move to Chairman of the Board will enable him to dedicate more time to the operations of Freedom, a wholly owned subsidiary of Starfish. Freedom is experiencing rapid growth and has recently announced two new development projects. These include a 54,000 square-foot, Class A office building at Hays Farm, the first of its kind in south Huntsville in the last three decades, and a 105,000 square-foot facility, the first of five buildings, in the Freedom Industrial Park in north Huntsville.
“Long-term succession planning is critical for companies to maintain their growth trajectory, “said Starfish Co-Founder and CEO Bill Roark. “Growth from within is critical to maintaining the special culture we have created across our portfolio of companies. John has done an exceptional job of leading Torch while serving as president of both Starfish and SIMVANA. He is the perfect choice for CEO and will continue the success of Starfish and our portfolio of companies moving forward.”
As CEO of Starfish, Watson will provide strategic leadership and assume day-to-day operations of the company. A key element of his position will be balancing the opportunities and risks for the Employee Stock Ownership Program which serves all the Starfish portfolio companies.
“I am excited to assume the role of CEO for Starfish Holdings,” said Starfish President John Watson. “I look forward to seeking more opportunities where our portfolio companies can work together to provide our customers with even greater value.”
In addition to his new role as CEO of Starfish, Watson will continue to serve as President of SIMVANA. The role of Torch President Brad Walker will remain unchanged. Watson was named President of Starfish in 2023. He has also served as both President and CEO of Torch Technologies since 2018. Prior to this appointment, he held a number of senior leadership roles within the company including President, Vice President of business development, and program manager for the Scalable Simulation Program with the USA AMRDEC.
Watson has nearly four decades of experience in the defense industry spanning many roles in project engineering support, line and program management, and corporate management. He holds a B.S. in Electrical Engineering from Auburn University and a M.S. in Electrical Engineering from the University of Florida.

--- Page: https://starfishholdings.com/torch-selected-as-a-best-place-to-work-for-third-consecutive-year/ ---

Torch Technologies is proud to announce that it has once again been recognized as one of the “Best Places to Work” in Huntsville/Madison County. Torch was honored as a “Best Place to Work” in the x-large business category of 251+ local employees at the eleventh annual Best Places to Work awards luncheon on Tuesday, April 10.
The program, held at the Von Braun Center North Hall, was hosted by the Chamber of Commerce of Huntsville/Madison County. More than 170 companies were nominated, and 15 were named as the “Best Places to Work.” This is the fifth time Torch has been named a “Best Place to Work” by the Chamber of Commerce of Huntsville/Madison County, receiving recognition in 2008, 2012, 2016, and again in 2017.
Quantum Workplace, a national company that specializes in measuring workplace satisfaction, measured and selected companies based on the following criteria: team effectiveness, retention probability, alignment with goals, trust with co-workers, individual contribution, manager effectiveness, trust in senior leaders, feeling valued, work engagement and people practices. The selections were based solely on anonymous employee survey inputs, and the top three companies from each category were awarded.
Torch President John Watson said, “We are honored to be recognized as a Best Place to Work in Huntsville/Madison County for the third consecutive year. Great people make up the core of every great company. Thank you to all of our employee-owners who truly make Torch the best place to work.”

--- Page: https://starfishholdings.com/torch-a-finalist-for-top-tiger-awards-2/ ---

At the second-annual Top Tiger event held on April 21st and 22nd by the Auburn University Raymond J. Harbert College of Business,
Business Alabama
magazine, and Warren Averett, Torch Technologies came in fifth in the large business category. Qualifying companies must have been founded, owned or led by an Auburn Alumni and awards were selected based on a percentage of revenue growth over the past three years.
Sixty finalists were named over three categories – small business, medium business and large business. Torch was in the large business category with more than $20M in annual revenue. The event was part of the Auburn Entrepreneurial Summit which also included the student entrepreneurial contest (Tiger Cage), with Torch President John Watson serving as one of the five judges, and Auburn Entrepreneur Hall of Fame induction dinner. Top companies, including Torch, will be featured in
Business Alabama
.

--- Page: https://starfishholdings.com/torch-technologies-ranked-on-inc-5000-list-for-12th-consecutive-year/ ---

For the 12
th
consecutive year,
Torch Technologies
, a 100% employee-owned technology services and solutions company headquartered in Huntsville, has been ranked on the
Inc. 5000
list. Ranked at #3,397 this year, Torch is the only Huntsville-based company that has been on the list for 12 consecutive years, and the largest of only two companies in Alabama to make the list 12 or more years. This year’s list required a three-year growth of 57% to rank #5000.
Inc.
Media President and Editor in Chief remarked, “Needless to say, making the list gets harder every year as your starting base grows. Of the tens of thousands of companies that have applied to the Inc. 5000 over the years, only a fraction have made the list more than once. A mere tenth of a percent have made the list 12 times.”
Torch continues to maintain consistent growth, posting revenue growth of 113 percent in the three-year measurement period. Of the 24 Huntsville-based companies on this year’s list, Torch had the highest revenue for 2017 with $349.1M.
Torch President John Watson stated, “We are proud that Torch has again been recognized on the most prestigious ranking of the fastest-growing private companies in America. We attribute our success to our employee-owners and their continued commitment to our company, to our customers, and to the Warfighter.”

--- Page: https://starfishholdings.com/torch-makes-washington-technology-top-100-government-contractors-list-for-third-year/ ---

Washington Technology recently released its annual “Top 100” list and Torch Technologies was ranked number 68 of the Top 100. The list ranks the largest government contractors by their prime contract dollars in IT, systems integrations, telecommunications, engineering and professional services. Torch, a 100% employee-owned small business, has made this list for the past three years, ranking 86 in 2015 and 75 in 2016, and moved up 7 spots in this year’s ranking. Torch was the highest ranked Huntsville-headquartered company named to this year’s list. Torch completed 2016 with over $293M in total revenue. Torch President John Watson stated, “On behalf of our employee-owners, I am proud that Torch has been recognized for the third year as one of the largest prime contractors of engineering services to the Federal Government, and we continue to strive to be recognized as the best services and solutions provider to our DOD customers.”
See the complete list at
Washington Technology 2017 Top 100
.

--- Page: https://starfishholdings.com/torch-wins-27-7m-grdcs-support-task-order/ ---

Torch Technologies is pleased to announce it was awarded the $27.7M Gulf Range Drone Control System (GRDCS) Support Task Order. Torch’s award, under the GSA OASIS contract, provides Software and Systems Engineering support for the Gulf Range Drone Control System (GRDCS) to the 96th Range Control Squadron (96 RNCS), 96th Range Group (96 RN), 96th Test Wing (96 TW) at Eglin Air Force Base, Florida. GRDCS is operational at Tyndall AFB, FL; and the Utah Test and Training Range. Torch will provide software engineering and systems engineering support at the Central Control Facility (CCF) at Eglin AFB, FL using CMMI Level 3 processes. GRDCS is used to control remotely piloted drones used for test purposes, to include the full-scale QF-16 and QF-4 target drones and the sub-scale BQM-167A target drone.
The work to be completed by Torch has an 8.5-year period of performance. “This successful re-competed effort is an exciting award for Torch Technologies and our employee-owners. This award represents the longest-term period of performance of any single contract that Torch has received,” said Torch President John Watson. “The 8.5-year period of performance offers opportunities to positively affect the future of target control systems for airborne drone systems.”

--- Page: https://starfishholdings.com/torch-technologies-breaks-ground-on-corporate-headquarters-renovation-and-new-conference-center/ ---

Today Torch Technologies announced a major construction project to renovate and occupy a new headquarters facility and conference center. The announcement was celebrated with a groundbreaking event at the site of the new conference center. Torch’s sister company, Freedom Real Estate & Capital, LLC, recently acquired the office buildings located at 4090 South Memorial Parkway and 4035 Chris Drive as well as approximately twelve surrounding acres. Torch has partnered with Freedom Real Estate & Capital to develop the properties and Torch will serve as the anchor tenant of the multi-tenant facility which will be named The Freedom Center. The project development partners include Matheny Goldmon Architecture and Turner Construction.
The construction will include a total renovation of the 40,000 SF four story 4090 South Memorial Parkway building, construction of a new 10,000+ SF conference center and a partial renovation of the 40,000 SF four story building at 4035 Chris Drive. The 4035 Building currently serves as the headquarters for Torch Technologies, Inc. and Invariant, LLC as well as Freedom Real Estate & Capital, LLC.
The newly constructed 10,000+ sq. ft. conference center will connect the buildings located at 4090 South Memorial Parkway and 4035 Chris Drive. When completed, the combined properties will be named The Freedom Center. Torch will fully occupy the building currently at 4090 South Memorial Parkway, the new Conference Center and a portion of the building at 4035 Chris Drive.
John Watson, President of Torch Technologies, commented that “We are excited to be growing and be in a position to establish a permanent Corporate Headquarters in southeast Huntsville. We are anxious to complete the new facilities for our employee owners as well as the customers we serve on Redstone Arsenal. This is a major milestone for our company and we’re looking forward to completing the construction by the end of the year.”
Bill Roark, CEO of Torch Technologies & Freedom Real Estate & Capital added “It is satisfying to kickoff this milestone project, for Torch and Freedom Real Estate, and to contribute to further development in southeast Huntsville. We are particularly proud to name the combined facility The Freedom Center, in honor of the many Military members, as well as civilians, who fight and work every day to keep our country free.”

--- Page: https://starfishholdings.com/torch-awarded-oasis-full-open-pools-1-3-and-4/ ---

Torch Technologies (Torch) is pleased to announce we were awarded GSA’s One Acquisition Solution for Integrated Services (OASIS) Full & Open Pools 1, 3, and 4. With this award, Torch now has Full & Open Pools 1, 3, 4, 5A, 5B, and 6, in addition to our Small Business Pools 5A, 5B, and 6. Contracts awarded under this open season provision will share the anticipated spending value of the OASIS program. GSA anticipates the spending value for OASIS SB and OASIS Unrestricted contracts to be at $60 Billion for 10 years of performance. Therefore, a ceiling value limited to Pools 1, 3 & 4 is not applicable.
OASIS is considered a Best-in-Class, Tier 3 contract by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB).  It is a multiple award, Indefinite Delivery Indefinite Quantity (IDIQ) contract that provides flexible contracting solutions and is available for use Government-wide to procure professional, scientific, and technical services support.  The scope of OASIS spans many areas of expertise and includes any and all components required to formulate a total solution to a professional services based requirement, including, but are not limited to: Communication, Compliance, Defense, Disaster, Energy, Environment, Financial, Health, Intelligence, Security, and Transportation.
“Torch has worked through the GSA to support many of our Government customers since our inception,” said Torch President and CEO John Watson, “and as one of only 21 companies to receive multiple pool awards, we are honored to be able to continue to expand our support of GSA’S OASIS.”

--- Page: https://starfishholdings.com/torch-celebrates-15-years-of-service-with-celebration-and-freedom-center-ribbon-cutting/ ---

Torch Technologies is celebrating an exciting milestone-its 15th anniversary. An early celebration was planned for September 22, 2017 at Torch’s newly renovated headquarters facility and Freedom Center. In conjunction with the 15th anniversary celebration, Torch also hosted a ribbon cutting to commemorate the official grand opening of the Freedom Center, a 12,200 SF conference and meeting facility.
The event began at 3:30 PM in the Freedom Center auditorium with comments from Joe Newberry, Board Chairman of the Huntsville/Madison County Chamber of Commerce, Mayor of Huntsville Tommy Battle, Congressman Mo Brooks, Torch CEO and Co-Founder Bill Roark, and Torch President John Watson. Next, in celebration of Torch’s success over the past 15 years, Torch held a special grant presentation of $15,000 each to representatives from 15 nonprofit organizations. Those charities included: Early Works Museums, Downtown Rescue Mission, HEALS, Huntsville Hospital Foundation, Kids to Love, Community Foundation of Huntsville/Madison County, Boys & Girls Club, Still Serving Veterans, The ARC, the Community Foundation Cap & Gown Fund, Semper Fi Task Force, American Cancer Society, American Heart Association, ALS Association of Alabama, and American Red Cross. In addition, Torch Helps, Torch’s 501(c)3 which is completely funded by and governed by Torch employees, awarded this quarter’s grants with a special presentation of $15,000 each to four nonprofit organizations selected by employee-owners. Those nonprofit organizations included: 305 8th Street, Community Free Clinic, New Hope Children’s Clinic, and Corpus Christi Hope House. Lastly, Freedom Real Estate & Capital, Torch’s sister company, awarded a grant of $15,000 to the Community Foundation “256” Fund.
Torch President John Watson said, “As we celebrate our 15th anniversary and we take stock of the accomplishments of the company, we should be proud. I am incredibly proud of the impact our employee-owners have had on our customers, our communities, and the Warfighter. Even as we celebrate the success of our past, we continue to work diligently to address the challenges of the future.”
Torch Technologies, established on October 2, 2002 in Huntsville, Alabama, was founded by Bill Roark and Don Holder. In its first year, Torch had seven employees in Huntsville. Now, with more than 750 employees in 15 locations in ten states, one territory, and one foreign country, Torch is “Lighting the Pathway of Freedom.”

--- Page: https://starfishholdings.com/freedom-real-estate-torch-technologies-and-invariant-corporations-commitment-to-south-huntsville-redevelopment-continues/ ---

Huntsville, AL – Freedom Real Estate & Capital (Freedom), Torch Technologies (Torch) and Invariant Corporation (Invariant) have announced they will be breaking ground on a new mixed-use facility in South Huntsville, with a targeted completion date in the summer of 2021. The groundbreaking ceremony, canceled due to COVID-19, was set to take place at the end of April. This new development follows the 2019 completion of
Torch’s Technology Integration and Prototyping Center.
Freedom
, a real estate investment company, will develop the new facility at 4040 Chris Drive, and has leased the first two spaces to Torch and Invariant, with opportunity for an additional tenant. The multi-tenant building will house up to 92,000 square feet and will feature a mix of office, research and development labs, light manufacturing, assembly, and integration space along with a high bay.
Torch
, a 100% employee-owned services and solutions defense contractor founded in 2002 in Huntsville, has shown its continued commitment to the redevelopment of and investment in South Huntsville through the rapid growth of its Huntsville headquarters. Torch’s campus consisted of two buildings in 2015, and just five years later Torch is breaking ground on its sixth building. “We are proud to work alongside the city and state in our continued efforts to improve the standard of living in our South Huntsville community” said John Watson, President and CEO of Torch.
Invariant
, an engineering services and software development company founded in 2001 in Huntsville, is expanding into the facility to support its continued growth. “We are excited to grow and expand into this new facility that will provide our employees the resources needed to ensure quality services and products are delivered to our customers, and we are proud to be a part of Huntsville’s continuing success” stated David Anderson, President of Invariant.
The project is part of a continued effort to redevelop South Huntsville. The city of Huntsville has been working to reclaim, modernize and upgrade the area along South Memorial Parkway to encourage investment and redevelopment in the area, and is seeing tremendous progress with many announcements of new projects, including
Hays Farm
. “Torch has been a catalyst for South Huntsville’s revitalization since the very beginning,” said Bekah Schmidt, CEO of South Huntsville Business Main Association. “The new facility at 4040 Chris Drive is a mixed-use facility with a state-of-the-art laboratory and premier manufacturing space. We look forward to seeing this project completed next year and appreciate Torch’s continued investment in South Huntsville!”
Bill Roark
, co-founder of Torch Technologies and CEO of Freedom Real Estate & Capital, added “We are proud to be able to contribute to economic development and growth in South Huntsville. This community is our home, and we look forward to watching it grow and thrive for years to come.”

--- Page: https://starfishholdings.com/torch-technologies-named-to-2017-entrepreneur-360-list/ ---

Torch Technologies was recently recognized as one of the “Best Entrepreneurial Companies in America” by
Entrepreneur
magazine’s
Entrepreneur360™ List
, a premier study delivering the most comprehensive analysis of private companies in America. Based on this study forged by
Entrepreneur
, Torch is recognized as a well-rounded company that has mastered a balance of impact, innovation, growth and leadership. Torch ranked #16 out of 360 organizations.
“We are proud to have been recognized by
Entrepreneur
magazine for our unique approach to innovation, growth, leadership and impact,” says Torch President John Watson. “Our continued success as a 100% employee-owned company can be credited entirely to our invaluable employee-owners. We are fortunate to be a part of a growing group of exceptional people who are loyal, innovative, and kind- they make Torch a wonderful place to work.”
“Our annual evaluation is a 360-degree analysis of top privately-held companies representing and serving a variety of industries,” explains Lisa Murray, Chief Insights Officer of Entrepreneur Media, Inc. “These businesses are real-world case studies for any entrepreneur who seeks to master the four pillars that can greatly impact the longevity and growth of their businesses. With the Entrepreneur 360, success is measured by achieving balance throughout the entire organization, predicated by revenue.”
Honorees were identified based on the results from a comprehensive study of independently- owned companies, using a proprietary algorithm and other advanced analytics. The algorithm was built on a balanced scorecard designed to measure four metrics reflecting major pillars of entrepreneurship—innovation, growth, leadership and impact.
For additional details on the E360 List and the companies recognized, visit:
entrepreneur.com/360

--- Page: https://starfishholdings.com/torch-technologies-raises-100k-for-village-of-promise-amid-covid-19-funding-shortfall/ ---

Torch Technologies Raises $100K for Village of Promise with Virtual Fundraiser
Torch Technologies (Torch) planned to host its 10
th
annual golf tournament in Huntsville this year, but in consideration of the current COVID-19 pandemic and safety concerns, instead hosted a virtual fundraiser for Village of Promise. Torch and previous golf tournament sponsors are collectively making a big difference, helping ease the funding shortfall at Village of Promise due to COVID-19. Through the combined generosity of previous golf tournament sponsors (listed below), Torch’s employee-owners, retirees, and Board of Directors, as well as employee-owners of our sister and parent companies Freedom Real Estate & Capital and Starfish Holdings, Torch was able to raise $100,000 for Village of Promise.
“We believe in giving back to the communities our employee-owners call home. By investing in the education and support of the children in our community, we aim to provide a better future for all our community’s residents,” said Torch President and CEO John Watson.  “We are so grateful to our sponsors and employee-owners for sharing that vision with us and joining us in support of Village of Promise. With the uncertainty surrounding this virus, it is so important for our community to come together in support of our local nonprofit organizations to help ease any funding concerns they may be experiencing.”
Torch and representatives from the many sponsoring companies presented the $100,000 check to Village of Promise at the Freedom Center on the Torch Technologies campus on September 1, 2020. All proceeds from the fundraiser benefited the Village of Promise and its mission to eradicate generational poverty one neighborhood at a time. The Village of Promise helps children of all ages receive support to help them achieve educational success from early childhood in their Infant University program to college and beyond.
“The community that was hardest hit by the COVID shutdown is the community that we directly serve at Village of Promise,” explained Village of Promise Executive Director Dr. Libby Parker. She continued, “We serve families and scholars from the most impoverished community in Huntsville, so it has been essential to help them get back on their feet and sustain their families during this unprecedented time. The funding provided by Torch and their partners is going directly to the hardest hit areas to combat poverty, and we couldn’t do it without them.”
Virtual Fundraiser Check Presentation
Thank you to our Village of Promise Fundraiser Sponsors:
Presenting Sponsors
: Torch Technologies (Torch), Torch Employee-Owners, Retirees, and Board of Directors, Freedom Real Estate & Capital Employee-Owners and Board of Directors, Starfish Holdings Employee-Owners and Board of Directors
Diamond Sponsors
: Applied Analytical Solutions, Crossflow Technologies
Platinum Sponsors
: Bradley, Essential Ingredients
Gold Sponsors
: Avion Solutions, CFD Research, Cintel, Inc., ERC, Gayle T. Milton, CLU ChFC, , Hill Technical Solutions Inc, Integration Innovation Inc. (i3), IBERIABANK, Invariant Corporation, IronMountain Solutions, Inc., ISSAC Corp., Maynard Cooper & Gale, NTA, Inc., Parsons, Progress Bank, Progress Financial Services, Synovus Bank, Wavelink, Inc., Willbrook Solutions, Inc.
Silver Sponsors
: Aegis Technologies, BRPH, J. Smith Lanier and Company, KODA Technologies, Millennium Engineering and Integration, SimTech, Turner Construction
Refreshment Sponsors
: ArcSpace Studio, Connor Group LLC, Reliant Technologies, Inc.
Hole Sponsors
: BB&T, Chris Patty, Christopherson Travel, Campus No. 805, Conditioned Air Solutions, DESE Research, Inc., DW Design LLC, Indoff Inc., Monte Sano Research Corporation (MSRC), nLogic Inc., PeopleTec, Inc., Principal, Redstone Federal Credit Union, The Lioce Group
Virtual Fundraiser Sponsors
About Village of Promise
– Village of Promise serves the needs of children and families from cradle to college to career in distressed neighborhoods. Education, health, enrichment programs and family support services are simply what they do to help each child succeed in school. Their initial efforts are focused in the neighborhood surrounding University Place Elementary School, Montview Elementary School, Westlawn Middle School and Butler High School. To learn more about the Village of Promise go to
www.villagepromise.com

--- Page: https://starfishholdings.com/torch-technologies-makes-inc-5000-list-for-13th-consecutive-year/ ---

Inc.
magazine today revealed that
Torch Technologies
, a 100% employee-owned technology services and solutions company headquartered in Huntsville, is No. 4200 on its annual Inc. 5000 list, the most prestigious ranking of the nation’s fastest-growing private companies.
Torch is the only Huntsville-based company that has been on the list for 13 consecutive years, and the largest of only two companies in Alabama to make the list 13 or more years.
Inc.
Editor in Chief James Ledbetter remarked, “Needless to say, making the list gets harder every year as your starting base grows. Of the tens of thousands of companies that have applied to the Inc. 5000 over the years, only a fraction
have made the list more than once.”
Torch continues to maintain consistent growth, being one of only 10 companies in the history of the Inc. 5000  to make the list 13 consecutive years. Of the 26 Huntsville-based companies on this year’s list, Torch had the highest revenue for 2018 with $405M.
Torch President and CEO John Watson stated, “We are proud that Torch has again been recognized as one of the fastest-growing private companies in America, and we are thrilled to be one of only 10 companies who has made the list 13 consecutive times. We know that our continued success is due to our employee-owners and their constant commitment to our company, to our customers, and to the Warfighter.”
Complete results of the Inc. 5000, including company profiles and an interactive database that can be sorted by industry, region, and other criteria, can be found at
www.inc.com/inc5000

--- Page: https://starfishholdings.com/torch-makes-washington-technology-top-100-government-contractors-list/ ---

Washington Technology recently released its annual “Top 100” list and Torch Technologies is ranked #86 of the Top 100. The list ranks the largest government contractors by their prime contract dollars in IT, systems integrations, telecommunications, engineering and professional services. 2015 is the first year for the company to make this list and the 100% employee owned Torch is one of only three Huntsville headquartered companies to make the list this year. Torch completed 2014 with over $175M in total revenue. John Watson, Torch President, stated, “On behalf of our employee owners, I am very pleased that Torch is being recognized as one of the largest prime contractors of engineering services to the Federal Government and we continue to strive to be recognized as the best services and solutions provider to our DOD customers.”
See the complete list at
Washington Technology 2015 Top 100
.

--- Page: https://starfishholdings.com/1623-2/ ---

Torch Technologies is pleased to announce that the Business Council of Alabama has presented the Still Ambassadorial Award to BCA board of directors’ member and Torch Technologies’ President John Watson.
The award was presented by Birmingham attorney and BCA board member Stephen W. Still, BCA Chairman Perry Hand, chairman of Volkert Inc. in Mobile, and BCA President and CEO William J. Canary, during the BCA board of directors meeting Feb. 7, 2018. The award is named for Still, who is the chairman of the BCA’s Ambassador program, a ProgressPAC board member, and a shareholder of Maynard Cooper & Gale.
BCA Ambassadors advocate the advantages of BCA membership to Alabama’s business community and in investing in the BCA to ensure that business is represented at the table in Montgomery and in Washington, D.C. “The BCA is a great return on investment,” said Watson, who became president in 2013 and was named to the Torch board of directors in 2014. Watson has more than three decades in the defense industry spanning numerous roles in project engineering support, line and program management, and corporate management. He is a graduate of Auburn University.
The Still Ambassadorial Award is presented to BCA members who show outstanding efforts and consistent contributions to the BCA’s Next Level Investor program.
Torch CEO Bill Roark stated, “We are proud of the success that Watson has had at Torch, and we are equally proud of his efforts within the community. As Torch has continued to grow, so has our commitment to giving back, and we are proud that our president leads by example through his commitment to organizations such as the Business Council of Alabama.”

--- Page: https://starfishholdings.com/torch-technologies-donates-100k-to-alabama-school-of-cyber-technology-engineering-foundation/ ---

Jim Diehl, Senior Manager of Torch Technologies, hands the check to Alicia Ryan and State Senator Arthur Orr on behalf of Torch’s employee-owners. (Photo: Claire Aiello)
Torch Technologies was proud to present a donation of $100,000 to the Alabama School of Cyber Technology and Engineering Foundation today in a ceremony at the National Cyber Summit being held at the Von Braun Center.
Senator Arthur Orr (Alabama Senate-3rd and President, Board
of Trustees, Alabama School of Cyber Technology and Engineering) and Alicia
Ryan (CEO, LSINC and President, Alabama School of Cyber Technology and
Engineering Foundation) accepted the check on behalf of the Foundation from Jim
Diehl, Chief of Staff.
President and CEO John Watson stated, “We are proud to support this exciting effort. By investing in our community’s education, we are investing in the future economy of our community.”

--- Page: https://starfishholdings.com/bill-roark-announces-retirement/ ---

Roark to Continue Board Roles and Serve as Advisor
HUNTSVILLE, Ala., March 3, 2025 – Starfish Holdings (Starfish), the parent company of Torch Technologies, Freedom Real Estate & Capital, LLC, and SIMVANA, today announced that Starfish Founder Bill Roark has announced his retirement effective immediately. Roark will continue to serve as Executive Chairman of the Starfish Holdings Board of Directors and as a member of the Freedom Real Estate Board of Directors. He will remain as CEO of Freedom Real Estate & Capital, LLC through a transitionary period. Additionally, he will serve in an advisory/consultant role to promote the continued growth of the Starfish enterprise.
“When Don Holder and I founded Torch Technologies in 2002, the goal was to create an employee-owned company with an approach that would allow the founders to retire without having to sell the company. We have now successfully achieved that goal,” said Starfish Executive Chairman Bill Roark. “This is a significant milestone for any employee-owned company.”
“We have been working toward this turning point for many years said Starfish CEO John Watson. “We have an experienced, stable management team in place at each of the companies that will enable us to move through this transition with no interruption in day-to-day activities.”
“We want to thank Bill for all he has done for each of the companies in the Starfish enterprise. Each of our employee-owners owes a great deal to Bill and Don and their vision for what could be achieved through employee ownership,” said Watson. “We wish Bill nothing but the best as he eases into retirement, and I look forward to continuing to work with him on the Starfish Board of Directors and in his new advisory role.”
About Starfish Holdings
Starfish Holdings, Inc. (Starfish) is the parent company of Torch Technologies, Freedom Real Estate & Capital, LLC, and SIMVANA. The company is an S corporation owned by the Starfish Employee Stock Ownership Plan (ESOP) and Trust with a focus on growing the retirement portfolios of the employee-owners of its subsidiaries. Starfish is committed to remaining an Evergreen enterprise through sustainable processes, ensuring employee ownership and financial well-being, supporting community well-being, and enabling customer and partner success, all while operating with integrity. To learn more, visit starfishholdings.com.

--- Page: https://starfishholdings.com/torch-awarded-lifecycle-engineering-support-contract/ ---

Torch Technologies is pleased to
announce it was awarded a $156.3M contract by the U.S. Army Aviation and
Missile Research, Development, and Engineering Center’s (AMRDEC) Engineering
Directorate (ED) for full spectrum technical research, development, and
engineering support of DoD systems.  The
contract has a 3½ year period of performance including exercised options and
will be executed primarily in Huntsville, AL.
Torch’s team will integrate Army needs across the complete
range of life-cycle engineering responsibilities for programs and products. Engineering
expertise delivered under the contract enables comprehensive and rapid research,
design, development, production, acquisition, test, delivery, sustainment,
modification, modernization, and reclamation support for aviation, missile,
ground, sea, and soldier systems and all associated development, production,
and support equipment.
“The Lifecycle contract allows Torch to continue
building upon our success delivering innovative solutions for Warfighter systems
which rely upon ED’s broad lifecycle engineering expertise,” Torch President
and CEO John Watson said. “We are honored to support this effort in
partnership with the AMRDEC Engineering Directorate.” The U.S. Army AMRDEC is operationally aligned with
the U.S. Army’s new Army Futures Command (AFC). The AMRDEC provides an
extensive research, development, engineering, and acquisition capability to enable
responsive solutions for the nation’s Warfighters. AMRDEC has the mission to
deliver collaborative and innovative aviation and missile capabilities for
responsive and cost-effective research, development, life cycle engineering, and
modernization solutions.

--- Page: https://starfishholdings.com/holder-named-director-emeritus-by-torch/ ---

Torch Technologies recently announced that Don Holder, Co-founder, former President and Member of the Board of Directors for Torch Technologies, has been named Director Emeritus for Torch. In this capacity Mr. Holder will continue to serve as an Advisor to the Company and to its Board of Directors.
Mr. Holder co-founded Torch Technologies with Bill Roark, CEO, in 2002. He began service on the Board of Directors and served as President until he transitioned out of the President’s role at the end of 2008, after more than 45 years in the Government and Defense industry and six years with the Company. Mr. Holder continued beyond 2008 as an active member of the Board of Directors and has earned the distinction of becoming Torch’s first Director Emeritus.

--- Page: https://starfishholdings.com/2020-best-workplaces-in-consulting-and-professional-services/ ---

Great Place to Work has once again honored Torch Technologies (Torch) as one of the
2020 Best Workplaces in Consulting & Professional Services
. The ranking is representing more than 357,000 employees working in the consulting or professional services industry in the United States. Great Place to Work, a global people analytics and consulting firm, evaluated more than 60 elements of team members’ experience on the job. These included the extent to which employees trust leaders, the respect with which people are treated, the fairness of workplace decisions, and how much camaraderie there is among the team. Rankings are based on employees’ feedback and reward companies who best include all employees, no matter who they are or what they do for the organization. Torch took the No. 20 spot on the Large Companies list.
“During these unprecedented times, we are especially proud of the special culture that we have at Torch. Throughout this pandemic, we have witnessed extraordinary displays of collaboration, innovation, personal integrity, and determination within our employee-owners,” said Torch President and CEO John Watson. “It is an honor to be able to work with such an exceptional team every day. We are also honored that our employee-owners continue to rate our workplace highly, and that Great Place to Work® is recognizing our positive culture for the fifth consecutive year.”
The Best Workplaces in Consulting & Professional Services stand out for excelling in one of the nation’s most competitive marketplaces.
“COVID-19 creates very unpredictable and rapidly changing markets for Consulting & Professional Services companies,” said Michael Bush, CEO of Great Place to Work. “Companies on this list stand out for the high level of trust they have built with their entire workforce. High-trust, For All cultures enable these organizations today to quickly adjust to remote work arrangements and to successfully navigate through uncertain times.”
The Best Workplaces in Consulting & Professional Services is one of a
series of rankings by Great Place to Work
based on employee feedback from Great Place to Work-Certified™ organizations. Torch Technologies was also ranked as a Best Workplace in Consulting & Professionals Services in 2016-2019, as well as a Small and Medium Workplace by Great Place to Work and FORTUNE in 2016-2018, in addition to a Best Workplace for Millennials in 2018 by Great Place to Work and FORTUNE.

--- Page: https://starfishholdings.com/torch-named-one-of-the-countrys-best-workplaces-in-consulting-and-professional-services/ ---

Great Places to Work 2017
Torch Technologies is proud to announce that our company has been recognized for the second consecutive year as one of the country’s Best Workplaces in Consulting & Professional Services by consultancy Great Place to Work and Fortune.
Torch Technologies ranked no. 26 on the
Best Workplaces
list. The results draw from surveys of 36,750 employees who assessed their firms’ leadership, benefits, camaraderie, work-life balance and other factors essential to a happy, high-functioning team. Colleagues who gave their workplaces high marks overall were notably more likely to express outsized loyalty and pride in their work.
“Our company’s success is dependent, first and foremost, on the talent and dedication of our people,” says Torch President John Watson. “We are intentional in our efforts to build and maintain a healthy culture that benefits our employee-owners. We’re honored that our employees rate our workplace highly, and that Great Place to Work® and Fortune are recognizing our positive culture for the second consecutive year.”
The Best Workplaces stood apart from their peers on questions assessing professional development and the ability of their leadership. Winning organizations also received higher scores on their benefits and community involvement.
“It’s no secret that the value of a professional services organization lies in its people,” said Great Place to Work’s Executive Vice President, Kim Peters. “The Best Workplaces invest in their staff’s knowledge and wellbeing, creating a high degree of trust that’s reflected in their work for clients.”
The Best Workplaces in Consulting & Professional Services is one of a series of rankings by Great Place to Work® and Fortune based upon employee survey feedback from Great Place to Work®-certified organizations. Torch Technologies and the other winning companies were selected based on anonymous responses to the Trust Index©, Great Place to Work®’s employee assessment survey.
Torch Technologies was also ranked as a Best Workplace in Consulting & Professionals Services (Ranked #17) in 2016, and as a Small and Medium Workplace by Great Place to Work and Fortune (Ranked #31) in 2016.

--- Page: https://starfishholdings.com/torch-technologies-named-one-of-the-best-small-companies-in-america-by-forbes/ ---

Torch Technologies, a 100% employee-owned technology services and solutions company, headquartered in Huntsville, has been named one of the Best Small Companies in America for 2016 by
Forbes
. Torch was one of 25 companies selected, and the only Alabama based company named to the list. Forbes selected the Best Small Companies in America based on nominations and the specific criteria listed below:
The company has been acknowledged as outstanding by those who know the industry best.
The company has had the opportunity to grow much faster but its leaders decided to focus on being great rather than just big.
The company has been recognized for its contributions to its community and to society.
The company has maintained its financial health for at least ten years by having a sound business model, a strong balance sheet, and steady profit margins.
The company is privately owned and closely held.
The company is human-scale, and frontline employees have real interaction with top leaders.
Forbes contributor and author of Small Giants Bo Burlingham explained, “There is one other factor. It’s what I refer to as mojo, the business equivalent of charisma… When a company has mojo, you want to be connected with it. You want to buy from it, sell to it, work for it… It’s hard to define, but you know it when you see it.”
Torch CEO Bill Roark stated, “Torch was founded with a focus on service to our customer, service to our community, and ultimately, a focus on the ethical treatment and service to our company’s employee-owners. I am incredibly proud of the dedication and loyalty of our employee-owners, as they are the reason we have received this honor as a Best Small Company in America.”

--- Page: https://starfishholdings.com/torch-supports-2018-liz-hurley-ribbon-run/ ---

Torch employee-owners and their families weathered the storms on Saturday, October 20
st
, to support the 2018 Liz Hurley Ribbon Run. Torch participants included Torch employee-owners, family, and friends who raised a total of $10,000 for the Liz Hurley Breast Cancer Fund at the Huntsville Hospital Foundation. The Torch team was happy to be a part of this event and is looking forward to growing the participation numbers and donation amount for next year’s event! With these fundraising efforts, the Huntsville Hospital Foundation will be able to provide lifesaving diagnostic equipment for Huntsville and Madison Hospital Breast Centers.

--- Page: https://starfishholdings.com/south-huntsville-companies-host-private-topping-out-ceremony-for-new-multi-tenant-facility/ ---

Placement of the final beam, signed by employees of Invariant, Freedom, and Torch
Construction is progressing on the new 4040 Chris Drive multi-tenant facility, and to celebrate the placement of the final beam, Freedom Real Estate and Capital, Invariant Corporation, and Torch Technologies hosted a Steel Topping Out ceremony on Friday, November 20, 2020 at 11:00 AM. In building construction, topping out is a builders’ rite traditionally held when the last beam is placed atop a structure during its construction. Due to COVID restrictions, this event was held privately.
The event began with a welcome from Huntsville Madison County Chamber CEO Chip Cherry and Huntsville Mayor Tommy Battle. Next, we heard from property developer Freedom Real Estate & Capital CEO,
Bill Roark
, as well as from representatives of the tenants of the new facility, Invariant Corporation Director of Advanced Technology, John Montgomery, and Torch Technologies Senior Director, Brady Porter. Turner Construction’s Project Executive Brandon Tucker provided ceremony history, and Turner raised the final beam atop the structure.
“Congratulations to our design and construction partners for keeping the project on schedule and moving forward safely during COVID,” said Freedom Real Estate & Capital’s Director of Capital Projects, Lee Holland. The design is led by Arcspace Studio and construction is led by Turner Construction Company. The project has achieved 25,000 work hours to date with no lost time accidents or injuries.
The 4040 Chris Drive Development is a multi-tenant building that will house up to 92,000 square feet and will feature a mix of office, research and development labs, light manufacturing, assembly, and integration space along with a high bay. The new mixed-use facility in South Huntsville has a completion date of early summer 2021.

--- Page: https://starfishholdings.com/torch-technologies-wins-144-9-m-ssdd-strategic-systems-engineering-integration-test-and-analysis-task-order/ ---

Torch Technologies is pleased to announce it was awarded the $144.9M U.S. Army Research, Development, and Engineering Command, Aviation and Missile Research, Development, and Engineering Center (AMRDEC), System Simulation and Development Directorate Task Order for technical and engineering services under AMCOM Express. This task order will provide various types of simulation support to all branches of the Armed services, multiple Program Offices, and others for development and improvements to their systems. Tasks may also involve related non-U.S. systems. SSDD is the premier organization delivering collaborative and innovative engineering solutions in the areas of system design, development, integration, analysis, and modeling & simulation to advance Aviation, Missile, and Defense capabilities.
Torch Technologies and our highly experienced team consider it an honor to be given this opportunity to be a partner with SSDD in all areas of Strategic Systems development. Our team of 59 team members and subcontractors bring a depth and diversity of experience that represent a spirit of excellence and we are extremely proud to be supporting such an important mission for the AMRDEC. “The System Simulation and Development Directorate has a long history of developing all types of simulation and analysis to support strategic systems development for the AMRDEC, performing a unique mission for the soldier,” Torch CEO Bill Roark said, “and Torch is privileged to be a team member of such a prestigious organization.”

--- Page: https://starfishholdings.com/torch-named-one-of-the-countrys-best-workplaces-in-consulting-professional-services-for-fourth-consecutive-year/ ---

Great
Place to Work and FORTUNE have again honored Torch Technologies as one of the
Best
Workplaces in Consulting and Professional Services
, marking Torch’s
fourth consecutive year on this list. The ranking considered feedback
representing over 339,000 employees working at Great Place to Work-Certified organizations
in the Consulting and Professional Services industry. Great Place to Work, a global
people analytics and consulting firm, evaluated more
than 60 elements of team members’ experience on the job.
These included the extent to which employees trust leaders, the respect
with which people are treated, the fairness of workplace decisions, and how
much camaraderie there is among the team. Rankings are based on employees’
feedback and reward companies who best include all employees, no matter who
they are or what they do for the organization. Torch Technologies took the #2 spot on
the Small and Medium Companies list.
“We are proud of our culture that benefits not only our customers and our employee-owners, but also our communities,” says Torch President and CEO John Watson. “It is an honor that our employees continue to rate our workplace highly, and that Great Place to Work® and
Fortune
are recognizing our positive culture for the fourth consecutive year.”
The Best Workplaces in Consulting and Professional Services
stand out for exceling in a competitive industry.
“Consulting
and Professional Services companies operate in some of the most competitive
spaces and endure the challenges of unpredictable and rapidly changing markets,”
said Michael Bush, CEO of Great Place to Work. “The Best Workplaces on this
list have invested in the professional development and personal care of their
employees; which have become crucial parts of their value proposition
that separate them from the competition in recruiting and retaining talent.”
The Best Workplaces in Consulting and Professional Services is one of a
series
of rankings by Great Place to Work
and FORTUNE
based on employee feedback from Great Place to Work-Certified™
organizations. Torch
Technologies also was ranked as a Best Workplace in Consulting &
Professionals Services in 2016, 2017, and 2018, as well as a Small and Medium
Workplace by Great Place to Work and FORTUNE in 2016, 2017, and 2018, in
addition to a Best Workplace for Millennials in 2018 by Great Place to Work and
FORTUNE.

--- Page: https://starfishholdings.com/torch-wins-34m-manufacturing-science-and-technology-obsolescence-task-order/ ---

Torch Technologies is pleased to announce it was awarded the $34M Technical Support in Manufacturing Science and Technology (MST) Obsolescence Tasks for AMCOM Aviation and Missile Systems. Torch’s award provides for technical and engineering services to support the obsolescence analysis for systems, subsystems, and components.
The work to be completed by Torch and teammate CGI has a 5-year period of performance. “This is an exciting award for Torch Technologies and our employee-owners,” Torch President John Watson said. “Obsolescence management is critical to the Army products life-cycle and ensures that parts, as well as new technology, are available to replace those obsolete parts. We are honored to have been selected to support the MST Obsolescence effort.”

--- Page: https://starfishholdings.com/torch-wins-the-2020-north-alabama-better-business-bureau-torch-award-for-marketplace-ethics/ ---

BBB Torch Award for Ethics Presentation at Torch Technologies
Torch Technologies (Torch), a 100% employee-owned technology services and solutions company, has been awarded the coveted North Alabama Better Business Bureau’s Torch Award for Marketplace Ethics in the Government Contractor category for 2020.
With this year’s recognition, Torch is now the only four-time recipient of the North Alabama Better Business Bureau’s Torch Award, having also won this award in the Mid-size Company category in 2005, the Large-size Company category in 2009, and the Government Contractor category in 2015.
Presented annually, the BBB Torch Award honors businesses that demonstrate exceedingly high standards of behavior toward customers, employees, suppliers, shareholders and communities; adherence to truthful and honorable advertising and sales practices; and an earned reputation for noteworthy contributions to their industries and the communities in which they do business. In lieu of the traditional annual awards luncheon, this year, due to COVID-19, winners were presented their awards at their place of business.
The Torch Award is designed to promote not only the importance of ethical business practices, but the willingness and efforts made by outstanding businesses to ensure that our country’s marketplace remains fair and honorable for all Americans. Candidates for the Torch Award were nominated and given the opportunity to submit information regarding their ethical relationships with customers, employees, and vendors. A prestigious panel comprised of representatives of the academic and business community judged the 26 entries from businesses and organizations that accepted their nomination and provided an entry for the Torch Award.
“We are honored to receive this prestigious recognition from the Better Business Bureau of North Alabama,” said Torch President and CEO John Watson. “The BBB upholds a national standard for enterprise and ethics, and we feel that receiving the Torch Award is one of the highest compliments that could be paid to us.”
The BBB awarded the 2020 Torch Award for Ethics to: Jackson Plumbing, Heating & Cooling in the Small Business Category (1-25 employees); Lanier Ford Shaver & Payne P.C. in the Mid-Size Company Category (26-99 employees); Farmers Telecommunication Cooperative in the Large Business Category (100+ employees), Torch Technologies in the Government Contractor Category; and Ethic Tech in the Veteran-Owned Category.

--- Page: https://starfishholdings.com/starfish-holdings-expands-management-team/ ---

New executives address key areas to position company
for future success
HUNTSVILLE, Ala., March 27, 2024 –
Starfish Holdings (Starfish), the parent company
of Torch Technologies, Freedom Real Estate, and SIMVANA today announced the
appointment of Joe Pierce as Chief Information Officer (CIO) and Tammie Dodson as
Director of Communications. Pierce and Dodson join Starfish Co-founder and CEO Bill
Roark and President John Watson on the executive team.
“As the companies within the Starfish portfolio continue to grow, so do the needs of
Starfish. These roles are key to enabling Starfish to fulfill its purpose of growing the
retirement portfolios of the employee-owners of our subsidiaries,” said Starfish
President John Watson. “We are excited to welcome Joe and Tammie to the Starfish
team. They bring the experience, knowledge, and dedication required to help us take
Starfish to the next level.”
“As a benefit corporation and Certified Evergreen™ company, Starfish has committed to
make a positive impact on society and make 100 percent employee-ownership
sustainable for the next 100 years,” said Bill Roark, CEO, Starfish Holdings. “Joe and
Tammie will help us take Starfish to the next level and are essential to achieving these
goals.”
Pierce brings approximately 35 years of experience with companies supporting
Department of Defense programs, including McDonnell Douglas, Boeing, Lockheed
Martin, Teledyne Brown Engineering, and Teledyne Technologies. He joins Starfish
from Teledyne Technologies, where he served as senior director of strategic realization
and was responsible for ensuring that the implementation of technology was aligned
with business strategy. Pierce holds a Bachelor of Science in Electrical Engineering
Technology from Murray State University.
In his role as CIO, Pierce will lead the technology strategy and drive innovation and
digital transformation across the Starfish multi-company enterprise consisting of both
defense and commercial companies. He will be responsible for overseeing all aspects
of information technology (IT) operations, including infrastructure, systems, applications,
and cybersecurity in a multi-member holding company structure.
Dodson brings over 30 years of experience to Starfish. Previously, she has led
communications activities for organizations, including Nichols Research Corporation,
the Huntsville Madison County Chamber of Commerce, the Port of Huntsville, and most
recently, Adtran, where she served as senior manager of corporate communications. In
this role, she was responsible for addressing the communication needs of both internal
and external stakeholders. Dodson holds a Bachelor of Arts in Communication from The
University of Alabama and a Master of Science in Strategic Communications
Management from Purdue University.
As director of communications, Dodson will lead communications for Starfish and its
portfolio of companies. She will oversee all aspects of internal and external
communications across all platforms and develop marketing and communication
campaigns for the commercial companies in the Starfish portfolio.
About Starfish Holdings
Starfish Holdings, Inc. (Starfish) is the parent company of Torch Technologies, Freedom
Real Estate & Capital, LLC, and SIMVANA. The company is an S-corp owned by the
Starfish Employee Stock Ownership Plan (ESOP) and Trust with a focus to grow the
retirement portfolios of the employee-owners of its subsidiaries. Starfish is committed to
remaining an Evergreen enterprise through sustainable processes, ensuring employee
ownership and financial wellbeing, supporting community wellbeing, enabling customer
and partner success, all while operating with integrity. To learn more, visit
starfishholdings.com.

--- Page: https://starfishholdings.com/torch-technologies-receives-community-philanthropy-award/ ---

Torch Technologies was presented a “Community Philanthropy Award” by the Community Foundation of Greater Huntsville during this year’s annual Summit on Philanthropy awards banquet. At the Summit on Philanthropy, members of the Huntsville community were recognized by the Community Foundation’s with various Philanthropy Awards. The Community Foundation of Greater Huntsville stated, “Torch Technologies has made giving back part of their corporate culture. We were honored to award them a Community Philanthropy Award at this year’s Summit on Philanthropy for their giving spirit. From prioritizing generosity as part of their ESOP transaction, to investing in the Catalyst Endowment, to numerous community partnerships, their philanthropic leadership is an inspiration.”
Other award recipients included Joe and Pam Alexander, Dynetics, Jean McCrady, Vector Wealth Strategies, LLC, and Mike and Patty Lowe.

--- Page: https://starfishholdings.com/torch-makes-inc-5000-list-for-14th-consecutive-year/ ---

Of the tens of thousands of companies that have applied to the Inc. 5000, 0.02% have made the list 14 times.
Inc.
magazine today revealed that
Torch Technologies
, a 100% employee-owned technology services and solutions company headquartered in Huntsville, is No. 4313 on its annual Inc. 5000 list, the most prestigious ranking of the nation’s fastest-growing private companies.
Torch is the only company in Alabama -and one of less than ten companies nationwide- that has made the list 14 or more years. Since its 2002 founding in Huntsville, Alabama, Torch has maintained consistent growth, expanding to include seven regional technical offices, and providing on-site field support at customer locations worldwide.
“We are proud that Torch has again been recognized as one of the fastest-growing private companies in America, and we are delighted to be among the 0.02 percent who have made the list 14 years,” said Torch President and CEO John Watson. “During these unprecedented times, we are especially thankful for Torch’s continued success and for our employee-owners’ diligence and commitment to our company, to our customers, and to the Warfighter.”
Not only have the companies on the 2020 Inc. 5000 been very competitive within their markets, but the list as a whole shows staggering growth compared with prior lists as well. The 2020 Inc. 5000 achieved an incredible three-year average growth of over 500 percent, and a median rate of 165 percent. The Inc. 5000’s aggregate revenue was $209 billion in 2019, accounting for over 1 million jobs over the past three years.
Complete results of the Inc. 5000, including company profiles and an interactive database that can be sorted by industry, region, and other criteria, can be found at
www.inc.com/inc5000

--- Page: https://starfishholdings.com/torch-golf-tournament-supports-village-of-promise/ ---

The Torch Employee Morale & Welfare Committee (EMWC) hosted its annual golf tournament on September 11 at Hampton Cove. Over 120 players participated and played the Highlands Course this year. Through the donations of the players and Torch Technologies, Torch CEO Bill Roark was pleased to present Bobby Bradley, CEO of the Village of Promise, with a check for $8,275 to benefit Village of Promise programs. At last year’s golf tournament, Roark presented Bradley with a check for $5,000. Bradley told participants that with the help of last year’s donation, over 75 families with new infants were served. Roark stated, “We are pleased that this annual event continues to grow each year, and we are excited to be able to partner with the Village of Promise in support of their invaluable programs.”
Village of Promise
– Village of Promise serves the needs of children and families from cradle to college to career in distressed neighborhoods. Education, health, enrichment programs and family support services are simply what they do to help each child succeed in school. Their initial efforts are focused in the neighborhood surrounding University Place Elementary School, Montview Elementary School, Westlawn Middle School and Butler High School. To learn more about the Village of Promise go to
www.villagepromise.com

--- Page: https://starfishholdings.com/torch-named-one-of-the-best-workplaces-for-millennials-by-great-place-to-work-and-fortune/ ---

Great Place to Work
and FORTUNE have honored Torch Technologies as one of the
2018 Best Workplaces for Millennials
. The ranking considered input from more than 434,000 employees from Great Place to Work-Certified™ companies. Rankings are based on employees’ experiences, no matter who they are or what they do for the organization.
“At Torch, we have been intentional in our efforts to attract and retain talent from every generation of our workforce, maintaining a culture that allows all employee-owners an opportunity to contribute to the company’s success and to grow in their career with the company,” says Torch President John Watson.
The Best Workplaces for Millennials stand out for their unique, innovative cultures, which helps them attract and retain Millennial employees. Great Place to Work, a research and consulting firm, evaluated more than 50 elements of team members’ experience on the job. These included employee pride in the organization’s community impact, belief that their work makes a difference, and feeling their work has special meaning. Torch has achieved this unique culture through a number of programs including the Society of Torch Emerging Professionals (STEPs), a voluntary internal group that currently has more than 70 members and focuses on professional development, networking, and community outreach opportunities for early career professionals. Torch has also implemented mentorship programs, a Leadership Book Club, training opportunities, and more.
“Great Place to Work is proud of these Best Workplaces that give their Millennial employees the tools they need to succeed,” said Michael Bush, CEO of Great Place to Work. “Organizations like Torch Technologies set the bar for other workplaces seeking to retain and develop the next generation of leaders, and prove that giving Millennials jobs with purpose and meaning drives them to give their best at work, benefitting the company as a whole.”
The Best Workplaces for Millennials is one of a
series of rankings by Great Place to Work
and FORTUNE based on employee feedback from Great Place to Work-Certified™ organizations.
Torch Technologies
was also ranked as a Best Workplace in Consulting & Professionals Services in 2016, 2017, and 2018, and as a Small and Medium Workplace by Great Place to Work® and FORTUNE in 2016 and 2017.

--- Page: https://starfishholdings.com/torch-makes-bloomberg-government-top-200-list-for-4th-year/ ---

Bloomberg Government released its annual “BGOV200” list today and Torch Technologies was ranked #122 of the Top 200. The list ranks the top federal contractors based on prime contracts awarded in fiscal 2019. Torch, a 100% employee-owned business, made the list for the first time in 2017, ranking #157, for the second time in 2018 ranking #155, and for the third time last year ranking #148. Torch was one of five Alabama companies named to the list in 2020, and the highest ranked of three Huntsville headquartered companies on this year’s list.
Torch President and CEO John Watson stated, “Torch continues to strive to provide the greatest and most cost-efficient solutions to our government customers in support of the Warfighter, so we are proud that we have again been included on the Bloomberg Government list of the top federal contractors for the fourth consecutive year.”
See the complete list at
BGOV200
.

--- Page: https://starfishholdings.com/starfish-holdings-appoints-cindy-walz-to-board-of-directors/ ---

Torch CFO Brings Wealth of Experience to Starfish Board
HUNTSVILLE, Ala., February 4, 2025 –
Starfish Holdings (Starfish), the parent company of Torch Technologies, Freedom Real Estate & Capital, LLC, and SIMVANA today announced that Torch Technologies Chief Financial Officer Cindy Walz has been appointed to the board of directors.
“Cindy brings invaluable experience,” said Starfish Chairman of the Board Bill Roark. “Her extensive background, paired with her deep understanding of the other Starfish companies, makes her an ideal addition to the Starfish board.”
Walz has over 30 years of experience in finance and accounting. She joined Torch Technologies, Inc. as Chief Financial Officer in 2017. Before joining Torch, she was Vice President, Finance for Vencore, Inc. (formerly Westar Aerospace/QinetiQ). In addition, she has extensive experience in all aspects of Finance and Accounting and has served in senior finance leadership positions at Teledyne Solutions, Inc. and Intergraph in the Huntsville area; Sikorsky Aircraft in Stratford, Connecticut; and United Technologies in Jupiter, Florida. She holds a B.S. in Accounting from the University of Alabama, and an MBA from Florida Atlantic University.
About Starfish Holdings
Starfish Holdings, Inc. (Starfish) is the parent company of Torch Technologies, Freedom Real Estate & Capital, LLC, and SIMVANA. The company is an S corporation owned by the Starfish Employee Stock Ownership Plan (ESOP) and Trust with a focus on growing the retirement portfolios of the employee-owners of its subsidiaries. Starfish is committed to remaining an Evergreen enterprise through sustainable processes, ensuring employee ownership and financial well-being, supporting community well-being, and enabling customer and partner success, all while operating with integrity. To learn more, visit
starfishholdings.com
.

--- Page: https://starfishholdings.com/torch-technologies-named-to-entrepreneur-360-list-for-third-consecutive-year/ ---

Torch Technologies was recognized today for the third consecutive
year as one of the “Best Entrepreneurial Companies in America” by
Entrepreneur
magazine’s
Entrepreneur360™ List
, a premier study delivering the most comprehensive analysis of
private companies in America. Based on this study forged by
Entrepreneur
, Torch is recognized as a
well-rounded company that has mastered a balance of impact, innovation, growth,
leadership, and value. Torch ranked #8 out of 360 organizations this year, up
from #11 in 2018 and #16 in 2017.
“We are proud to have again been recognized by
Entrepreneur
magazine for our distinctive
approach to innovation, growth, leadership, and culture,” says Torch President and
CEO John Watson. “Our continued success as a 100% employee-owned company is
thanks to our invaluable employee-owners. We are privileged to be part of a
growing group of extraordinary people who are innovative and bright, and who make
Torch a great place to work.”
“Every entrepreneur knows that a healthy business isn’t just about
growth. It’s about being well-rounded—growing your culture and your systems as
strongly as you grow your revenue,” says Jason Feifer, editor in chief of
Entrepreneur
magazine. “That’s why we’re
excited to celebrate these companies with our fifth annual Entrepreneur360™
ranking. The companies that make the list have pushed boundaries with their
innovative ideas, fostered strong company cultures, impacted their communities
for the better, strengthened their brand, and grown impressively as a result.”
Honorees were identified based on the results from a comprehensive
study of independently- owned companies, using a proprietary algorithm and
other advanced analytics. The algorithm was built on a balanced scorecard
designed to measure five metrics reflecting major pillars of
entrepreneurship—innovation, growth, leadership, impact, and business valuation.
For additional details on the E360 List and the companies
recognized, visit:
entrepreneur.com/360

--- Page: https://starfishholdings.com/asme-names-torch-outstanding-engineering-firm-of-the-year/ ---

Torch Technologies employee-owners at the Engineers Week Banquet.
Torch Technologies is proud to announce it has been chosen by the American Society of Mechanical Engineers (ASME), North Alabama Section (NAS), as the Outstanding Engineering Organization for 2020.
In selecting the engineering organization of the year, the NAS considers engineering accomplishment, contributions to the community, milestones, research, and contracts that impact the Huntsville/Tennessee Valley area. The award was presented at the American Society of Civil Engineers’ Engineers Week banquet on February 20
th
at the Jackson Center in Huntsville.
Torch President and CEO John Watson stated, “We are honored
to receive this recognition during Engineers Week, and we have our
employee-owners to thank for our continued success. Our engineers continue to
strive to deliver outstanding solutions and technologies to our customer, and we
take great pride in the work that we do supporting the Warfighter.”

--- Page: https://starfishholdings.com/built-with-purpose-now-available/ ---

Book highlights employee ownership as a new formula for success
The wait is finally over. Bill Roark’s book,
Built with Purpose: How Our Employee-Owned Business Changed What it Means to Work and Why
, officially hit the shelves at Amazon this morning. You can find the book
here
. The book chronicles local entrepreneur and Torch Technologies Co-Founder Bill Roark realizing his dream of building an employee-owned company whose success benefits everyone who works there—not just the founders.
“This book outlines the struggles we faced and the success we enjoyed as a young company,” said Torch Co-founder and Author Bill Roark. “It is my hope that this will not only be a walk down memory lane for those who were part of the company in the early years, but it will serve as a lasting reminder for all future Torch employees as to how employee ownership has not only been the foundation of our success, but has enabled us to build a unique corporate culture where everyone works for the common good.”
A number of local book signings have already been scheduled including the following:
• May 20, 6:00 – 7:30 p.m. at
Yellowhammer Brewery
• May 23, 5:00 – 7:00 p.m. at
Harrison Brothers Hardware
• June 4, 5:35 – 6:30 p.m. at Rocket City Trash Pandas
If your group or organization would like to schedule Bill as a speaker or for a book signing, please contact Tammie Dodson at
256-932-6079
.
About the Book
The book chronicles the formation and first decade of the history of Torch Technologies. The Torch story validates that there is a better way to build a business—one where everyone is truly engaged and invested in working toward the long-term success of the company—while also keeping generosity as a core value.
About the Author
Bill Roark is the cofounder of Torch Technologies, Inc. (Torch), the founder and CEO of Starfish Holdings. Inc, the parent company of Torch, and the founder of Freedom Real Estate & Capital, LLC. Bill has also been involved as a business coach and partner in a local brewery. Yellowhammer brews are local favorites.

--- Page: https://starfishholdings.com/south-huntsville-redevelopment-continues/ ---

Rendering provided by Freedom Real Estate
Freedom Real Estate & Capital (Freedom), Torch Technologies (Torch) and Invariant Corporation (Invariant) have announced they are breaking ground on a new mixed-use facility in South Huntsville, with a targeted completion date in the summer of 2021. The groundbreaking ceremony, cancelled due to COVID-19, was set to take place at the end of April. This new development follows the 2019 completion of Torch’s
Technology Integration and Prototyping Center
.
Freedom
, a real estate investment company, will develop the new facility at 4040 Chris Drive, and has leased the first two spaces to Torch and Invariant, with opportunity for an additional tenant. The multi-tenant building will house up to 92,000 square feet and will feature a mix of office, research and development labs, light manufacturing, assembly and integration space along with a high bay.
Torch
, a 100% employee-owned services and solutions defense contractor founded in 2002 in Huntsville, has shown its continued commitment to the redevelopment of and investment in South Huntsville through the rapid growth of its Huntsville headquarters. Torch’s campus consisted of two buildings in 2015, and just five years later Torch is breaking ground on its sixth building. “We are proud to work alongside the city and state in our continued efforts to improve the standard of living in our South Huntsville community” said John Watson, President and CEO of Torch.
Invariant
, an engineering services and software development company founded in 2001 in Huntsville, is expanding into the facility to support its continued growth. “We are excited to grow and expand into this new facility that will provide our employees the resources needed to ensure quality services and products are delivered to our customers, and we are proud to be a part of Huntsville’s continuing success” stated David Anderson, President of Invariant.
The project is part of a continued effort to redevelop South Huntsville. The city of Huntsville has been working to reclaim, modernize and upgrade the area along South Memorial Parkway to encourage investment and redevelopment in the area, and is seeing tremendous progress with many announcements of new projects, including
Hays Farm
. “Torch has been a catalyst for South Huntsville’s revitalization since the very beginning,” said Bekah Schmidt, CEO of South Huntsville Business Main Association. “The new facility at 4040 Chris Drive is a mixed-use facility with a state-of-the-art laboratory and premier manufacturing space. We look forward to seeing this project completed next year and appreciate Torch’s continued investment in South Huntsville!”
Bill Roark, co-founder of Torch Technologies and CEO of Freedom Real Estate & Capital, added “We are proud to be able to contribute to economic development and growth in South Huntsville. This community is our home, and we look forward to watching it grow and thrive for years to come.”

--- Page: https://starfishholdings.com/torch-team-raises-46k-for-2020-huntsville-virtual-heart-walk/ ---

Torch Team 2019
Torch employee-owners have a heart for giving back to their communities, and although this year’s Huntsville Heart Walk was a virtual event due to COVID-19, they still showed their heart for this cause by raising $46,265 for the American Heart Association. Torch employee-owners’ participation in the American Heart Association (AHA) Huntsville Heart and Stroke Walk continued this year with 138 members on the virtual Torch Team.
The Torch Team was the largest team, the top fundraising team, and the top fundraising company, raising $46,265 and contributing to the more than $411,781 that was raised by AHA. This year, a Torch employee-owner, Debbie Overcash, was the Top Individual Fundraiser, and Torch’s Co-Founder Bill Roark was the second Individual Fundraiser. Despite the challenges of COVID-19, this event was a success and we were proud to be a part of it!

--- Page: https://starfishholdings.com/torch-a-finalist-for-top-tiger-awards/ ---

At the inaugural Top Tiger event held in April by the Auburn University Raymond J. Harbert College of Business, Business Alabama magazine and Warren Averett, Torch Technologies came in fourth in the large business category. Qualifying companies must have been founded, owned or led by an Auburn Alumni and awards were selected based on a percentage of revenue growth over the past three years. Torch’s President John Watson is an Auburn Alumni.
There were 270 nominations submitted from multiple states. Sixty finalists were named over three categories – small business, medium business and large business. Torch was in the large business category with more than $50M in annual revenue. The event was part of the Auburn Entrepreneurial Summit which also included the student entrepreneurial contest (Tiger Cage), and Auburn Entrepreneur Hall of Fame induction dinner. Top companies, including Torch, will be featured in Business Alabama.

--- Page: https://starfishholdings.com/torch-ranked-on-inc-5000-list-for-10th-consecutive-year/ ---

Torch Technologies, an employee owned technology services and solutions company headquartered in Huntsville, is proud to announce it has been ranked on the Inc. 5000 list for the tenth consecutive year. Ranked at #3,634 this year, Torch is the only Huntsville-based company that has been on the list for 10 consecutive years, and one of only two companies in Alabama to make the list 10 or more years.
Torch continues to maintain consistent growth, adding 176 new jobs and posting revenue growth of 86 percent in the three-year measurement period. Of the 15 Huntsville government services companies on this year’s list, Torch had the highest revenue for 2015 with $232.8M.
Torch President John Watson stated, “Torch’s success is due to the commitment of our employee owners, the continued support of our customers, and the good partnerships that we have formed within industry, state, and local government. Fortunately, this has resulted in continued growth and opportunities for our employee owners.”

--- Page: https://starfishholdings.com/torch-makes-bloomberg-government-top-200-list/ ---

Bloomberg Government recently released its annual “BGOV200” list and Torch Technologies was ranked #157 of the Top 200. The list ranks the top federal contractors based on prime contracts awarded in fiscal 2016. Torch, a 100% employee-owned small business, made the list for the first time this year as the highest ranked Huntsville-headquartered company.
Torch President John Watson stated, “We are proud that Torch has been included on the Bloomberg Government list of the top federal contractors, and we continue to strive to provide the best and most cost-efficient services and solutions to our government customers in support of the Warfighter.”
See the complete list at
BGOV200
.

--- Page: https://starfishholdings.com/torch-technologies-wins-24-5-million-samd-non-standard-missile-division-technical-support-task-order/ ---

Torch Technologies has been awarded the $24.5 million Security Assistance Management Directorate (SAMD), Non-Standard Missile Division Technical Support Task Order, under AMCOM Express. This task order will provide technical support for the procurement, delivery, and sustainment of U.S. Army Aviation and Missile Command (AMCOM) missile systems entered into agreement via the Foreign Military Sales (FMS) process between the U.S. Government (USG) and numerous foreign governments.
Tasks involve technical support requirements for AMCOM SAMD managed missile weapon systems, their associated support/test equipment, and repairable secondary items. The Non-Standard Missile Division is the premier organization responsible for providing product assurance, production engineering, system engineering, technical data management, and test and evaluation support for customers worldwide.
“Torch Technologies and our highly experienced team are honored to be given this opportunity to be a partner with SAMD’s Non-Standard Missile Division,” Torch CEO Bill Roark said. “Our 14 team members and subcontractors bring a wide range of experience that represents a spirit of excellence, and we are extremely proud to be supporting such an important mission for SAMD. The Non-Standard Missile Division has a long history of providing critical technical support to customers worldwide, and Torch is incredibly fortunate to be a team member of such an esteemed organization.”

--- Page: https://starfishholdings.com/the-torch-team-supports-the-2018-aha-north-alabama-heart-walk/ ---

Torch employee-owners have a heart for giving back to their communities. Through Torch Helps, Torch In Action, and Torch corporate charitable giving and company-sponsored events, Torch employee-owners and families have set a high standard for involvement and community outreach. Torch employee-owners’ participation in the American Heart Association (AHA) North Alabama Heart Walk continued this year. The Torch Team had 117 participants and Torch employee-owners, family and friends joined the Torch Team on Saturday, April 14
th
in downtown Huntsville for the annual event. The Torch Team raised $29,975 through 168 donations and was the highest fundraising team, contributing to the more than $400,000 that was raised by AHA during the walk. This year, Torch’s CEO and Co-Founder Bill Roark was the Heart Walk’s Top Executive Fundraiser. Like Torch, this event continues to grow each year, and we are happy to be a part of it!

--- Page: https://starfishholdings.com/torch-named-one-of-the-countrys-best-workplaces-in-consulting-professional-services-for-third-consecutive-year/ ---

Great Place to Work
and FORTUNE have again honored Torch Technologies as one of the
Best Workplaces in Consulting & Professional Services
for the third consecutive year. The ranking considered input from more than 51,000 employees in the Consulting & Professional Services sector. Great Place to Work, a research and consulting firm, evaluated more than 50 elements of team members’ experience on the job. These included employee pride in the organization’s community impact, belief that their work makes a difference, and feeling their work has special meaning. Rankings are based on employees’ experiences, no matter who they are or what they do. Torch Technologies took the No. 3 spot on the Small and Medium Companies list.
“At Torch, we are committed to maintaining our unique culture, despite our company’s continued growth,” says Torch President John Watson. “We are proud of our culture that benefits not only our customers and our employee-owners, but also our communities. It is an honor that our employees continue to rate our workplace highly, and that Great Place to Work® and
Fortune
are recognizing our positive culture for the third consecutive year.”
The Best Workplaces in Consulting & Professional Services stand out for thriving in the competitive marketplace.
“Great Place to Work is proud to have these Best Workplaces show that maximizing human potential creates a great workplace and drives business performance,” said Michael Bush, CEO of Great Place to Work. “Organizations like Torch Technologies set the bar for other Consulting & Professional Services companies by practicing what they preach.”
The Best Workplaces in the Consulting & Professional Services is one of a
series of rankings by Great Place to Work
and FORTUNE based on employee feedback from Great Place to Work-Certified™ organizations.
Torch Technologies
was also ranked as a Best Workplace in Consulting & Professionals Services in 2016 and 2017, and as a Small and Medium Workplace by Great Place to Work and
Fortune
in 2016 and 2017.

--- Page: https://starfishholdings.com/torch-makes-washington-technologys-top-100-government-contractors-list-for-second-year/ ---

Washington Technology recently released its
annual “Top 100” list
and Torch Technologies was ranked #75 of the Top 100. The list ranks the largest government contractors by their prime contract dollars in IT, systems integrations, telecommunications, engineering and professional services. Torch, a 100% employee owned small business, has made this list for the past two years, and moved up 11 spots in this year’s ranking. Torch completed 2015 with over $230M in total revenue. John Watson, Torch President, stated, “On behalf of our employee-owners, I am very pleased that Torch has been recognized for the second year as one of the largest prime contractors of engineering services to the Federal Government, and we continue to strive to be recognized as the best services and solutions provider to our DOD customers.”

--- Page: https://starfishholdings.com/starfish-announces-two-new-board-members-for-2020/ ---

Huntsville, AL— Starfish Holdings, Inc. announces the appointment of two new members of its Board of Directors for 2020. Joining the Board of Directors are Danny Windham and Kristopher Maynard.
Starfish Board Member Danny Windham joined HudsonAlpha as Chief Operating Officer in 2019. He brings more than 20 years of leadership experience to the Institute, serving as President and COO at Adtran (2005 – 2007) as well as CEO at Digium (2007 – 2018). Windham received a BS in Electrical Engineering from Mississippi State University where he was named a Distinguished Engineering Fellow in 2001. He also holds an MBA from Florida Tech. Windham is actively involved in the entrepreneurial community and has supported the development of multiple startups. He also has a strong commitment to giving back to his community and serves on multiple boards including the Huntsville/Madison County Chamber of Commerce, Biztech, and Leadership Alabama. He was also chairman of the Madison YMCA fundraising committee and a volunteer pilot for Angel Flight.
Starfish Holdings, Inc. Board Member Kris Maynard founded Essential Ingredients with Chris Gerlach in 1996. Kris serves as the Chief Executive Officer & Chairman of the Board at Essential Ingredients. His favorite thing about Essential Ingredients is to help to shape a work environment that provides a pathway for employees to utilize their giftedness. Kris was born and raised in rural Ohio and graduated from Miami University with a Bachelor of Arts in Zoology in December 1989. His chemical career started with Stepan Chemical Company in Chicago, Illinois in the spring of 1991 after spending several months in Russia doing missions work and working numerous odd jobs during 1990. Kris relocated from Chicago to Atlanta, Georgia where he was assigned a territory in the Southeastern United States as a distributor specialist.
About Starfish
Starfish Holdings, Inc.’s focus is to grow the retirement portfolios of the employee-owners of their subsidiaries. Starfish holds 100% ownership of both Torch Technologies and Freedom Real Estate. Starfish Holdings (Starfish) is an S-corp owned by an Employee Stock Ownership Plan (ESOP) and Trust.

--- Page: https://starfishholdings.com/freedom-real-estate-acquires-warehouse-and-distribution-facility-in-madison-al/ ---

Freedom Real Estate & Capital has expanded and diversified its property portfolio with the acquisition of the
Frito Lay
Distribution Center located at 114 Jetplex Circle in Madison, Alabama. Frito Lay, a division of
PepsiCo
, has occupied the 26,000 square foot facility for the last 30 years and will continue to use the facility as the company’s warehouse and distribution center for the Huntsville/Madison area.
“This is a strategic acquisition for Freedom,” said
Brenda Conville
, Freedom’s Director of Real Estate. “This move partners us with an iconic brand and long-term tenant, while allowing us to diversify our property management portfolio and establish a stronger presence in the dynamic Madison market.”
Freedom Real Estate & Capital officially assumed ownership of 114 Jetplex in November of 2019.
About Freedom Real Estate & Capital. LLC
Headquartered in Huntsville, AL, Freedom Real Estate & Capital is a commercial real estate company providing brokerage representation, property management, and facility development services.

--- Page: https://starfishholdings.com/torch-technologies-promotes-watson-to-president-and-ceo-as-roark-moves-into-starfish-holdings-ceo-role/ ---

Torch Technologies, Inc.
(Torch) recently announced that its
Board of Directors has promoted John Watson from President to President and CEO
effective January 1, 2019. Concurrent with this move, Torch Co-Founder and CEO,
Bill Roark, has completed the planned transition into his role as CEO of Starfish
Holdings, Inc., the parent company of Torch Technologies, Inc. and other
Starfish holdings.
Watson has served as President of Torch since 2013 and will be
the President and CEO with this promotion. This transition has occurred over
the past two years, with Roark moving away from his full-time involvement with
Torch and towards leadership of the Starfish Holdings enterprise.
“We have selected a strong, proven leader for Torch at a
time when Torch is in a very strong position as a rapidly growing employee-owned
small business,” said Co-Founder Bill Roark. “Since John became President in
2013, he has continually grown the company in multiple locations, broadening
both our capabilities and solutions. We have full confidence that John will
continue to move the company forward, capitalizing on the opportunities in
front of us, and will lead the company in the best interest of our
employee-owners.”
Watson joined Torch in 2009 as Vice President of Corporate
Development before assuming the President role in 2013. “I joined Torch in 2009
because I wanted to be a part of a company that not only had an established
reputation within the community and with customers for its ethics and values, but
also had vast possibilities for growth and innovation,” said Watson. “Today it
is even more clear to me that Torch is that company. I am honored that Bill and
the Torch Board have placed their faith in me to continue to lead Torch in this
capacity.”

--- Page: https://starfishholdings.com/torch-technologies-named-one-of-the-countrys-best-small-and-medium-workplaces/ ---

A positive work environment is essential to a healthy business and has been a central component of our success. So we’re proud to announce that
Torch Technologies
has earned a place among the country’s
Best Small and Medium Workplaces
recently announced by consulting firm Great Place to Work® and
Fortune
.
Torch Technologies won this accolade based on employees’ anonymous responses to an extensive survey about their levels of trust, pride and camaraderie at work. Great Place to Work® reviewed the survey results of more than 52,000 employees from hundreds of companies in the ranking process. Among the findings from the study: trust fuels business performance. For example, the Best Small and Medium Workplaces enjoy roughly three times the revenue growth of their peers, even as they provide a better experience for their people.
“Our company values our commitment to others. By creating a culture that benefits our employee-owners, we ultimately benefit our customers, our community, and the warfighter,” says Torch President John Watson. “As a 100 percent employee-owned company, we know that our company’s success depends on our employee-owners. Fortunately for us, our employee-owners are loyal, talented, and generous people who make our company a great place to work.”
Torch Technologies came in #31 on the Best Medium Workplaces list.
“There’s a generosity of spirit that infuses the Best Small and Medium workplaces—one that has a measurable return,” said Kim Peters, Executive Vice President of Great Place to Work. “Whether it’s funding employee ‘passion projects’ or giving surprise gifts to customers, the best workplaces give it away. And they get it back in the form of inspired people who innovate harder and generate higher revenue.”
The Best Small and Medium Workplaces is one of a series of rankings by Great Place to Work and
Fortune
based upon employee survey feedback from
Great Place to Work-Certified
TM
organizations.
Torch Technologies also ranked as a best workplace for the 2016 Best Workplaces in Consulting & Professional Services by Great Place to Work and
Fortune
.

--- Page: https://starfishholdings.com/torch-receives-colorado-springs-best-in-business-award/ ---

Torch Technologies is proud to announce that it has been selected for a “Best in Business” award in Colorado Springs. Torch was selected as the third place “Best in Business” award recipient in the Cybersecurity & Homeland Security category.
The awards program, held at Almagre and virtually for those who wanted to watch from the comfort of their own home, was hosted by the Colorado Springs Business Journal, on June 24, 2020. Selections for the Best in Business awards were based on Colorado Springs Business Journal reader votes for businesses in each category, and the top three companies from each category were awarded.
Torch President and CEO John Watson said, “We are honored to be recognized as a Best in Business in Colorado Springs recipient, especially during this unprecedented time. Great people make up the core of every good company and great people shine during a time of crisis. We are very fortunate to have great people who care about our mission, our community and our company; and who have shone brightly over the past few months as we have all navigated this COVID-19 pandemic.”

--- Page: https://starfishholdings.com/torch-technologies-wins-186m-technical-and-management-advisory-services-tmas-armament-task-order/ ---

Torch Technologies is pleased to announce it was awarded the $186M OASIS Technical and Management Advisory Services (TMAS) Armament Task Order. Torch’s award provides for non-personal advisory and assistance services (A&AS) to fully support Aerospace Research, Development, Test and Evaluation (RDT&E) activities at the Air Force Test Center (AFTC). The TMAS program primarily focuses on robust systems engineering and technical assistance services.
The work to be completed by Torch and its highly experienced team will be primarily conducted at Eglin AFB, FL and Kirtland AFB, NM. The Task Order has a 4+ year period of performance and will add approximately 100 Torch employees located in its Shalimar, FL and Albuquerque, NM office locations. “This is an exciting award for Torch Technologies and our employee owners,” Torch President John Watson said. “Having spent over half my career directly supporting AFRL and AFTC, this award is particularly important to me and we are honored to have been selected to lead the contractor team supporting the TMAS Armament effort.”

--- Page: https://starfishholdings.com/dr-daniel-schumacher-joins-torch-technologies-leadership/ ---

Torch Technologies is pleased to announce that Dr. Daniel Schumacher is joining Torch as the AMCOM Express Deputy and Senior Manager.
Dr. Schumacher has over 27 years of experience in civil space and missile defense, serving in various project management, strategic planning and engineering roles. Prior to joining Torch, he served as Director of Science & Technology at NASA’s Marshall Space Flight Center. Also at NASA, he served as Director of the Office of Strategic Analysis and Communications, and held leadership positions on projects including X-37 Space Plane and the Constellation Program’s Lunar Lander. He spent the first 12 years of his career supporting Army Air and Missile Defense programs.
Dr. Schumacher received a BS in Industrial Engineering from Texas A&M University, and his MS and PhD in Systems Engineering from the University of Alabama in Huntsville. He was appointed to the Senior Executive Service in 2008. He is a Harvard Senior Executive Fellows graduate, as well as a graduate of Leadership Huntsville/Madison County’s Leadership Class 23. He is a recipient of the Presidential Rank Award, NASA’s Outstanding Leadership Medal, and the University of Alabama in Huntsville Alumni Association’s Alumni of Achievement Award.
Torch President John Watson stated, “We are very excited to welcome Daniel to Torch. His proven leadership abilities and clear commitment to continued education are consistent with our company’s core attributes. Having Daniel join our leadership team will bring a wealth of experience to Torch as we support our customers across Huntsville and the nation.”

--- Page: https://starfishholdings.com/torch-supports-2019-liz-hurley-ribbon-run/ ---

Torch Team at 2019 Liz Hurley Ribbon Run
Torch employee-owners and their families laced up their running shoes on Saturday, October 19th, to support the 2019 Liz Hurley Ribbon Run. Torch participants included Torch employee-owners, family, and friends who raised a total of $6,750 for the Liz Hurley Breast Cancer Fund at the Huntsville Hospital Foundation. The Torch team was happy to be a part of this event and support these fundraising efforts to help provide lifesaving diagnostic equipment for the Madison Hospital Breast Center.

--- Page: https://starfishholdings.com/torch-technologies-named-esop-company-of-the-year/ ---

Torch Technologies is proud to announce it has been recognized as the ESOP Company of the Year by the New South Chapter of The ESOP Association. The New South Chapter is one of 18 chapters of The ESOP Association that provides educational services and resources to member companies in Tennessee, Mississippi, Alabama, Georgia, and Florida. Torch will represent the New South Chapter in the upcoming national award competition for ESOP Company of the Year.
Torch President John Watson stated, “We are proud to have been recognized as the ESOP Company of the Year representing the five Southeastern states of the New South Chapter. As always, our employee-owners are to thank for this recognition for their continued commitment to excellence at Torch.”

--- Page: https://starfishholdings.com/torch-named-one-of-the-2020-best-workplaces-for-millennials-by-great-place-to-work-and-fortune/ ---

Great Place to Work has once again honored Torch Technologies (Torch) as one of the
2020 Best Workplaces for Millennials
. The ranking considered feedback representing over 4.9 million employees working at Great Place to Work-Certified organizations. Great Place to Work, a global people analytics and consulting firm, evaluated more than 60 elements of team members’ experience on the job. Eighty-five percent of the evaluation is based on what millennials say about their experiences of trust and reaching their full human potential as part of their organization. The remaining 15 percent of the rank is based on an assessment of millennials’ daily experiences of innovation, the company’s values, and the effectiveness of their leaders. Torch took the No. 72 spot on the Large Companies list.
“At Torch, more than a third of our employee-owners are millennials who will help carry the torch for our company’s future endeavors,” says Torch President and CEO John Watson. “It is an honor to work alongside bright employee-owners from every generation as we work together for the benefit of our customers and our company.”
The Best Workplaces for Millennials stand out for their unique, innovative cultures, which helps them attract and retain Millennial employees. Great Place to Work evaluated team members’ experience on the job, including employee pride in the organization’s community impact, belief that their work makes a difference, and feeling their work has special meaning. Torch has achieved this culture through programs including the Society of Torch Emerging Professionals (STEPs), a voluntary internal group that currently has more than 100 members and focuses on professional development, networking, and community outreach opportunities for early career professionals. Torch has also implemented mentorship programs, a Leadership Book Club, training opportunities, and more.
“For many years, organizations have put forth considerable effort towards attracting and retaining millennial talent” said Michael Bush, CEO of Great Place to Work. “The Best Workplaces on this list have created cultures where its youngest employees experience not only an environment where they can grow professionally and personally, but also find a deeper sense of purpose in their work. As we prepare for a large influx of young professionals from Generation Z to enter the work force for the first time, these organizations have distinguished themselves as the leaders in attracting and developing the leaders of tomorrow.”
The Best Workplaces for Millennials is one of a
series of rankings by Great Place to Work
and FORTUNE based on employee feedback from Great Place to Work-Certified™ organizations. Torch was also ranked a Best Workplace for Millennials in 2018 by Great Place to Work and FORTUNE, as well as a Best Workplace in Consulting & Professionals Services in 2016-2020, in addition to a Best Small and Medium Workplace by Great Place to Work and FORTUNE in 2016-2018.

--- Page: https://starfishholdings.com/torch-golf-tournament-benefiting-village-of-promise-a-success/ ---

Torch Technologies hosted its 6th annual golf tournament on Friday, September 9 at the RTJ Golf Trail at Hampton Cove. The golf tournament hosted the maximum number of participants the Hampton Cove courses could handle, with 240 golfers playing on both the River Course and the Highlands Course this year. All proceeds from the event benefitted the Village of Promise and its mission to eradicate generational poverty one neighborhood at a time.
The tournament began with an 8:30 shotgun start at the RTJ Golf Trail at Hampton Cove. 60 teams participated in the tournament, enjoying a nice day of golf while helping children of all ages receive support to help them achieve educational success- from early childhood in their Infant University program to college and beyond. Through the donations of the players, sponsors, and a contribution from Torch, Torch was pleased to present Peggy Sammon and David Shrum, Board Members of Village of Promise, with a check for $25,000 to benefit Village of Promise programs. At last year’s golf tournament, Torch presented Village of Promise with a check for $8,275. President John Watson stated, “Torch’s continued success is allowing us to give back to the communities where our employees live and work. We aim to raise the standard of living for everyone, and we are grateful to our sponsors, participants, and volunteers for sharing that vision with us to allow us to continue to grow this event each year. We were excited to be able to double our number of golfers this year, and triple the donation that is going to Village of Promise. We look forward to continuing our partnership with Village of Promise in support of their invaluable programs.”
Village of Promise
– Village of Promise serves the needs of children and families from cradle to college to career in distressed neighborhoods. Education, health, enrichment programs and family support services are simply what they do to help each child succeed in school. Their initial efforts are focused in the neighborhood surrounding University Place Elementary School, Montview Elementary School, Westlawn Middle School and Butler High School. To learn more about the Village of Promise go to
www.villagepromise.com

--- Page: https://starfishholdings.com/7th-annual-torch-golf-tournament-benefits-village-of-promise-mission/ ---

Torch Technologies hosted its 7
th
annual golf tournament on Friday, September 15 at the RTJ Golf Trail at Hampton Cove. The golf tournament hosted 180 players who played on both the River Course and the Highlands Course this year. All proceeds from the event benefited the Village of Promise and its mission to eradicate generational poverty one neighborhood at a time.
The tournament began with an 8:30 shotgun start at the RTJ Golf Trail at Hampton Cove. 45 teams participated in the tournament, enjoying a beautiful day of golf while helping children of all ages receive support to help them achieve educational success- from early childhood in their Infant University program to college and beyond. Through the donations of the players, sponsors, and a contribution from Torch, Torch was pleased to present Cofounder Bobbie Bradley and Executive Director Dr. Rachel Ballard with a check for $30,000 to benefit Village of Promise programs.
President John Watson stated, “At Torch, we believe in giving back to the communities where our employees live and work. By investing in the future of the children in our community, we aim to raise the standard of living for everyone. We are so grateful to our sponsors, participants, and volunteers for sharing that vision with us. We were excited to be able to match last year’s donation that is going to Village of Promise programs. We look forward to continuing our partnership with Village of Promise in support of their invaluable programs.”
Village of Promise
– Village of Promise serves the needs of children and families from cradle to college to career in distressed neighborhoods. Education, health, enrichment programs and family support services are simply what they do to help each child succeed in school. Their initial efforts are focused in the neighborhood surrounding University Place Elementary School, Montview Elementary School, Westlawn Middle School and Butler High School. To learn more about the Village of Promise go to
www.villagepromise.com

--- Page: https://starfishholdings.com/torch-celebrates-opening-oftechnology-integration-and-prototyping-center-tipc/ ---

Technology Integration and Prototyping Center (TIPC)
Torch Technologies (Torch) virtually celebrated the ribbon cutting of its newest building, the Technology Integration and Prototyping Center. The ribbon cutting was scheduled to be held on March 13, 2020 at Torch’s new lab and solutions facility but was canceled due to COVID-19.
TIPC, the newest facility of Torch’s growing campus, consists of a 45,000 square foot, two-story research and development building with an attached 5,000 square foot high bay facility. The TIPC facility incorporates offices, labs, engineering design tools, collaborative work areas, meeting spaces, and a high bay and complete machining and fabrication capability.
“It was nearly two years ago that we celebrated the groundbreaking of Torch’s Technology Integration and Prototyping Center (affectionally referred to as the TIPC). At that time, we were 750 employee-owners and $348M in revenue,” said Torch President and CEO John Watson. “Since then, we have grown to approximately 1100 employee-owners and half a billion dollars in annual sales. A key contributor to this growth has been the investment we made into the TIPC.”
The new facility has greatly expanded Torch’s capacity to deliver cost-effective design and prototyping solutions for their customers. With the addition of the newest facility, Torch’s Huntsville campus now comprises four buildings, and will break ground on a fifth building in April.
Torch, established on October 2, 2002 in Huntsville, Alabama, was founded by Bill Roark and Don Holder. In its first year, Torch had seven employees and one location. Now, with more than 1100 employee-owners in 17 locations in twelve states, one territory, and one foreign country, Torch is lighting the pathway of freedom.
For more information about the Technology Integration and Prototyping Center
.

--- Page: https://starfishholdings.com/sam-burkett-joins-torch-technologies-leadership/ ---

Torch Technologies is pleased to announce that Mr. Sam Burkett will join Torch to lead the company’s Florida Business Unit and serve as Program Manager for the recently awarded $186M OASIS Technical and Management Advisory Services (TMAS) Armament Task Order. Torch currently serves Air Force customers through two other contracts at Eglin in AFRL and the 96TW.
Mr. Burkett was the General Manager in charge of the TEAS contract at Eglin for more than 12 years, and has been working Eglin-related programs since 1982. He has over 35 years of experience in the defense industry spanning numerous roles in scientific and engineering services and engineering program management.
Mr. Burkett received a BS in Computer Science and Statistics from the University of Southern Mississippi, a MS in Business Management from Troy University, a MS in Systems Engineering from the University of West Florida, and post-graduate studies in Systems Engineering at the University of Florida.
Mr. Burkett serves on the board of directors for Partners for Stennis, Fort Walton Beach Chamber Military Affairs, Children in Crisis, CareerSource Florida State Employment, and the All Sports Association. He also serves as a chairman of the Economic Development Council’s Eglin Defense Support Initiative, and as an executive board member for the Gulf Coast Council of the Boy Scouts of America.
Torch President John Watson stated, “We are very excited to welcome Sam to Torch. His technical leadership, commitment to customer service, and history of community outreach are consistent with our company’s core attributes. Having Sam join our leadership team will bring a tremendous depth of knowledge and capability to Torch as we support our Air Force customers.”

--- Page: https://starfishholdings.com/mike-stanfield-joins-torch-board-of-directors/ ---

Torch Technologies recently announced that Mike Stanfield has joined the Torch
board of directors
. Mr. Stanfield has over 35 years of experience in DoD and the Intelligence Community. He most recently served as President of Miltec and Group Vice President of the Advanced Systems Group in Ducommun Inc., retiring in 2016. He was a founding member and serves as Chairman and President of a non-profit company, Lincoln Village Preservation Corporation, refurbishing housing for low income residents in Huntsville’s historic Lincoln Village. He currently serves on the Huntsville/Madison County Chamber of Commerce Board of Directors and the Cummings Research Park Board. He received his BS in Mechanical Engineering from North Carolina State University, his Master’s degree in Mechanical Engineering from the University of Florida, and a Master’s in Business Administration from Vanderbilt University.

--- Page: https://starfishholdings.com/village-of-promise-benefits-from-torch-golf-tournament/ ---

The Torch Employee Morale & Welfare Committee (EMWC) hosted it’s annual golf tournament on September 5 at Hampton Cove. Over 80 players participated and played the River Course this year. Through the donations of the players and Torch Technologies, Torch CEO Bill Roark was pleased to present Bobby Bradley, CEO of the Village of Promise, with a check for $5,000 to benefit Village of Promise programs. Roark stated, “We are pleased to see this annual event grow each year and we are excited to partner with the Village of Promise and help raise funds for their very worthwhile programs.”
Village of Promise
– The Village of Promise serves the needs of children and families from cradle to college to career in distressed neighborhoods. Education, health, enrichment programs and family support services are simply what they do to help each child succeed in school. Their initial efforts are focused in the neighborhood surrounding University Place Elementary School, Montview Elementary School, Westlawn Middle School and Butler High School. To learn more about the Village of Promise go to
www.villagepromise.com