About Us
Who We Are & What We Do

Starfish Holdings, Inc.’s focus is to grow the retirement portfolios of the employee-owners of our subsidiaries. Starfish holds 100% ownership of both Torch Technologies and Freedom Real Estate — strong companies with solid growth and performance. We are proud of the difference we make in the lives of those we represent, and we work hard to protect their interests. Starfish Holdings (Starfish) is an S-corp owned by an Employee Stock Ownership Plan (ESOP) and Trust.

    Starfish Holdings, Inc. was created by the dedication of our employee-owners. Our future is powered by their energy and imagination. – Bill Roark 

4050-Chris-Drive-Aerial-021
Portfolio Companies
4090-Memorial-Pkwy-0015
Torch Technologies, Inc. (Torch)

Torch Technologies is a defense services company founded in 2002. Torch is headquartered in Huntsville, Alabama with employee owners located in Colorado, Florida, Hawaii, Maryland, Massachusetts, Michigan, Ohio, Oklahoma, Pennsylvania, New Mexico, Texas, Virginia, Kwajalein, and Egypt. Torch provides superior research, development, and engineering services to the Federal Government and Department of Defense. As one of the nation’s top 100 defense companies, the services and solutions provided by Torch directly support the men and women who serve our country. Torch has been a high growth and performance company since inception, with capabilities including advanced technologies, engineering design, models and simulation, virtual trainers, lifecycle sustainment, software development, systems engineering, cybersecurity and IT, environmental, test and evaluation, and program support. The corporate mission statement sums up the pride the employee owners take in their work: “Lighting the Pathway of Freedom.”  Torch currently has more than 1,000 employee owners with annual revenue in excess of $518M in 2019.
700-Boulevard-South-0056
Freedom Real Estate Capital, LLC

Freedom is a commercial real estate firm that invests in and manages commercial real estate properties. Established in 2014, Freedom has developed a long-term investment strategy around commercial rental income properties in the Huntsville, Alabama area. Freedom’s key focus is to own, hold, and manage long-term commercial real estate to return a reasonable profit. Freedom has concentrated its efforts on renovating and modernizing spaces to attract and retain premium tenants and partnering with investors and firms to develop properties and improve the community. Freedom’s priority is to do business in a way that values ethics, fair play, and achieving win-win results for all stakeholders. Freedom focuses on building strong partnerships with key real property professionals, including sales brokers/agents, financial institutions, law firms, building trade contractors, real estate service firms, and others.
2001-Nichols-Drive-Aerial-002
SIMVANA, LLC

SIMVANA is a Software as a Service (SaaS) company that delivers high-fidelity Virtual Reality (VR) training solutions to both the Department of Defense and commercial industry. SIMVANA was founded in 2023 and is headquartered in Huntsville, AL. with customers at government facilities and universities across the United States.  SIMVANA’s key focus is to leverage advances in commercial spatial computing technologies to create 3D immersive training environments that can disrupt and fundamentally change the training industry.   SIMVANA’s priority is to assist our broad customer base to accelerate the adoption of this technology and help them to realize increased training efficiency and cost avoidance opportunities.   The cornerstone of SIMVANA is a common training platform which can be leveraged by any customer to create a digital twin of their products, create mastery lessons to train uses how to operate the equipment, cloud connectivity to enable teaching content delivery and the collection of user performance, and embedded high-fidelity simulation to emulate complex operations in an immersive 3D environment.
