
Bill Roark

Bill Roark is the founder and CEO of Starfish Holdings, Inc. the parent company of Torch Technologies, the co-founder of Torch Technologies, Inc., and the founder of Freedom Real Estate & Capital, LLC. Roark has over 30 years of Department of Defense-related experience. As CEO of Torch, Roark guided the organization to national recognition as one of Forbes’ Small Giants in the America’s Best Small Companies list and Entrepreneur Magazine’s Top 100 Fastest Growing Companies in America. Among countless other awards, Torch has been recognized thirteen consecutive years on the Inc. 5000 list. Locally, Torch has received the BBB Torch Award for business ethics three times. Roark works to expand employee ownership to other organizations, and will share the experiences of Torch’s transition to 100% employee-owned S Corporation. Roark earned a M.S. from the University of Kentucky and a B.S. from Cumberland College.

Carl Monk

Carl Monk joined the Board of Directors of Torch Technologies in August 2009. Monk served as Chief Financial Officer at Scitor, successfully guiding the company through a complete ESOP buyout from its founding owners. While at Scitor, he also served on its Board of Directors. In 1987, Monk finished a 20-year career as a Naval Flight Officer and Naval Engineering Duty Officer. He went on to found Welkin Associates, ltd., a systems engineering firm providing engineering and program management services within the intelligence community, including the National Reconnaissance Office. As CEO and CFO he grew Welkin over 10 years to a $20 million firm with a reputation based on integrity and technical prominence. Nichols Research Corporation acquired Welkin in 1998. Monk then served Nichols as President of its national programs and as Executive Vice President of its government programs prior to the acquisition of Nichols by Computer Sciences Corporation in 1999. Monk holds both a B.S. and an M.S in Computer Science from the U.S. Naval Postgraduate School and is a graduate of the U.S. Naval Test Pilot School.

Danny Windham

Danny Windham joined HudsonAlpha as Chief Operating Officer in 2019. He brings more than 20 years of leadership experience to the Institute, serving as President and COO at Adtran (2005 – 2007) as well as CEO at Digium (2007 – 2018). Windham received a BS in Electrical Engineering from Mississippi State University where he was named a Distinguished Engineering Fellow in 2001. He also holds an MBA from Florida Tech. Windham is actively involved in the entrepreneurial community and has supported the development of multiple startups. He also has a strong commitment to giving back to his community and serves on multiple boards including the Huntsville/Madison County Chamber of Commerce, Biztech and Leadership Alabama. He was also chairman of the Madison YMCA fundraising committee and a volunteer pilot for Angel Flight.

Cindy Walz

Cindy Walz

Cindy Walz has over 30 years of experience in finance and accounting. She joined Torch Technologies, Inc. as Chief Financial Officer in 2017. Before joining Torch, she was Vice President, Finance for Vencore, Inc. (formerly Westar Aerospace/QinetiQ). In addition, she has extensive experience in all aspects of Finance and Accounting and has served in senior finance leadership positions at Teledyne Solutions, Inc. and Intergraph in the Huntsville area; Sikorsky Aircraft in Stratford, Connecticut; and United Technologies in Jupiter, Florida. She holds a B.S. in Accounting from the University of Alabama, and an MBA from Florida Atlantic University.

John Watson

John Watson was recently promoted to be President of Starfish Holdings, LLC, the parent company of Torch Technologies (Torch), Freedom Real Estate and Capital, and Simvana.  Previously, Watson served as the President of Torch, and was appointed to President and CEO in 2018. Prior to becoming Torch President, Watson served as Torch’s Vice President of Business Development and Program Manager for the Scalable Simulation Program with the USA AMRDEC. Watson has nearly 40 years of experience in the defense industry spanning numerous roles in project engineering support, line and program management, and corporate management. Prior to joining Torch, Watson served as the Director for New Product Development for Dynetics, Inc. where he led corporate business development efforts in hardware development, Air Force and technology programs. Prior to his role in Business Development, Watson led their Florida Division. Previous to that, Watson was Vice President of the Florida Division for Nichols Research Corporation.  Watson received a Bachelor of Science in Electrical Engineering from Auburn University where he was named Outstanding Graduate from the School of Engineering and a Masters of Science in Electrical Engineering from the University of Florida. Watson currently serves on the board for the Huntsville Chamber of Commerce and the Employee-Owned S Corporations of America (ESCA) Association. He has previously served as a board member of the Alabama Business Council where he was selected for the Still Ambassadorial Award for membership outreach. He also served as co-chair for the Alabama Department of Education’s Strategic Planning Committee on Mathematics in 2017.  Mr. Watson is a graduate of the Huntsville Leadership L-31 Flagship Program. 

Bobby A. Bradley

Ms. Bobby A. Bradley is a native of Huntsville, AL and attended St. Joseph’s Mission School (now Holy Family Catholic School), Butler High School and received her Bachelor of Science in mathematics and chemistry from Vanderbilt University in 1971.  Ms. Bradley’s professional career has included employment with Northrop Corporation (1971-1972) as a mathematician, Computer Sciences Corporation (1972-1974) as a computer programmer, and the U.S. Army Missile Command (1974-1989) as an operations research analyst. 

Ms. Bradley started Computer Systems Technology (CST) with two associates in 1989, providing computer, engineering and management-related services to the Department of Defense and NASA.  The company later expanded services to other federal agencies and performed services in 33 locations across the country including Kings Bay, Georgia; Memphis, Tullahoma, and Nashville, Tennessee; Louisville, Kentucky; Salt Lake City, Utah; Dallas, Texas; and Washington, D.C.  In April 2003, CST was acquired by Science Applications International Corporation (SAIC). 

In April 2004, Ms. Bradley retired from SAIC and is currently a partner in two LLC’s, Lewis Properties and Genesis II.   In January 2011, Ms. Bradley co-founded Village of Promise (VoP), a non-profit organization focused on eradicating generational poverty by ensuring that children and adults in an under-resourced neighborhood successfully transition through their education into sustainable careers. 

Ms. Bradley has been involved in numerous professional and community organizations.  Her community activities have included Board positions with the U.S. Space and Rocket Center, Huntsville/Madison County Chamber of Commerce, Madison County United Way, the Federal Reserve Bank Branch Birmingham, Huntsville-Madison County Leadership, Lincoln Village Preservation Corporation, and the Huntsville Land Trust.  She has received numerous awards including the Outstanding Achievement Award from Girls, Incorporated, Leadership Award from the Distinguished Young Men of Huntsville, Nominee for the Minority Small Business Person of the Year, and the Eagle Award.  In June 1998 she was selected Executive of the Year and in 2020 she received the Distinguished Service Award from the Huntsville/Madison County Chamber of Commerce.  Currently, she holds board positions with the Huntsville Botanical Garden Foundation, Hudson Alpha Institute for Biotechnology Foundation, PeopleTec, Inc, Starfish Holdings, and Village of Promise.  She is an active member of First Missionary Baptist Church.

Pete Prodoehl

Pete Prodoehl, formerly, Vice President of ESOP Consulting at Principal, has over 42 years of experience in the retirement planning industry and focused on ESOPs the last 37 years when he retired in April of 2022.

Pete engaged with business owners and companies to define their objectives and design, implement and communicate ESOPs. His areas of technical expertise included ESOP feasibility, design, transaction structure, and helping clients address operational and strategic issues. He also consulted on plan terminations, plan compliance issues, acquisitions, mergers, corporate structure, and spin-off transactions.

Pete served as a member of The ESOP Association (TEA), the National Center for Employee Ownership (NCEO), the Wisconsin and New South Chapters of TEA, and the Employee-Owned S-Corporation of America (ESCA). He was also a member of the Administration Advisory Committee for TEA and for the Board Advisory Committee for ESCA.

A frequent speaker at national and regional ESOP conferences, Pete has also authored and co-authored numerous ESOP publications.

Pete earned a Bachelor of Business Administration degree in Corporate Finance from the University of Wisconsin at Eau Claire.

In his spare time, Pete enjoys golf, fishing, and spending time at his cabin in northern Wisconsin.
