

--- Page: https://torchtechnologies.com/employees/rsa-token-management/ ---



--- Page: https://torchtechnologies.com/company/our-history/ ---

The Power of Employee-Ownership
Midway through their careers, Bill Roark and Don Holder had both worked for a highly successful company when it was sold. For months, Roark invited Holder to breakfast and discussed starting a new company with him. Both had felt they had made commitments to valued employees in the past that they were powerless to honor after the acquisition. To prevent a similar situation from occurring in the future, Roark and Holder envisioned a business that would become an employee owned company through which its employees would have better control of their destinies. Through a phone call on his way to the University of Oklahoma for an Alabama Crimson Tide football game, Holder finally accepted Roark's offer to join the startup in early September 2002. The new company started in a modest suite at 2705 Artie St. that included a few offices and a conference room. The night before, "the company didn't even have desks," said Roark, who bought and assembled some desks from Staples and also purchased some used furniture.
Since those early days, the company's success has skyrocketed. We believe that level of success is achieved by giving every employee owner a stake in the outcome.
Torch Becomes Public Benefit Corporation
October 2023
Torch's 20th Anniversary
October 2, 2022
Torch Achieves Certified Evergreen™ Status
March 7, 2022
Torch achieved Certified Evergreen™ status from Tugboat Institute, recognizing Torch’s commitment to remain a privately owned company.
Honolulu, HI Office Opened
July 1, 2020
Detroit, MI Office Opened
January 31, 2020
Waltham, MA Office Opened
January 1, 2019
Groundbreaking on New Lab and Solutions Facility
April 13, 2018
Pax River, MD Office Opened
November 1, 2017
Torch’s 15th Anniversary
October 2, 2017
Aberdeen, MD Office Opened
August 1, 2017
500 Employees
July 1, 2016
Albuquerque, NM Office Opened
June 6, 2016
TMAS Armament Task Order Added 100+ Employees to Shalimar, FL Location
April 8, 2016
Moved Into New Corporate Headquarters Building
October 14, 2015
Located at 4090 South Memorial Parkway
Groundbreaking on Corporate Headquarters Renovation and New Conference Center: The Freedom Center
March 20, 2015
Torch In Action Was Formed
August 1, 2014
Service arm of Torch Helps, previously Torch Gives
Shalimar, FL Office Opened
July 1, 2014
Achieved 100% Employee and ESOP Ownership
January 24, 2014
Colorado Springs Office Opened
April 3, 2013
Aviation Division Achieves CMMI Level 3 Rating
July 12, 2012
250 Employees
March 16, 2012
Achieved 100% Employee Ownership
December 31, 2011
Passed $1B in Awarded Prime Contract/Task Order Ceiling
March 15, 2011
Optical Research and Calibration Laboratory Opened
May 31, 2010
Received ISO 9001 Certification
March 10, 2010
Employees Adopted Core Attributes
December 6, 2008
Innovation, Cooperation, Expertise, Customer Focus, Excellence, Integrity, and Reliability
First Major Prime Award
June 30, 2008
SSDD TO 1- $180M Ceiling
Corporate Offices Relocated to 4035 Chris Drive
June 30, 2005
Torch Helps Was Established
June 16, 2005
Fifty Employees
May 31, 2004
Employee Stock Option Plan (ESOP) Was Effective
January 1, 2004
First Prime Contract
March 12, 2003
Torch Technologies Was Founded
October 2, 2002

--- Page: https://torchtechnologies.com/solutions/advanced-technologies/ ---

From Ideas to Reality
Torch actively supports the Army, Air Force, Navy, Missile Defense Agency (MDA), and Defense Threat Reduction Agency (DTRA) in research and development. In addition, we support warfighting applications of new technology concepts through multiple Phases I, II and III Small Business Innovation Research (SBIR), Small Business Technology Transfer (STTR), and Science & Technology programs. Torch's proven process takes technology through concept development, algorithm development, algorithm validation, and finally, technology transition. The Torch advanced technology programs incorporate fundamental research; advanced operational concept and technology formulation, development, analysis, and evaluation; and transition of technology into weapon systems to improve existing warfighting capabilities.
The Guardian testbed is a 3D game-like environment where engineers explore design trades and soldiers explore mission operations.  This testbed consits of a multi-layered service-based technology stack that can be quickly reconfigured to represent alternate system desgins.
Torch produced an agile workbench which adapts commercial design sprint methods and tools to address the hard challenges of weapon system prototyping. The agile workbench ideation management tools are built by extending open-source technologies.
Shield Acquisition Innovation Lab (SAIL) - leads to enhanced risk reduction across the acquisition timeline through efficient sharing of digital data, and earlier prototype realization which assists technology transition and Army acquisition.
Digial Engineering Missile Operations (DEMO) Center provides a set of composable virtual ltestbeds used to explore complex technology operations in a full system kill chain.  The DEMO Center tools provide an open architecture capability to rapidly integrate new technologies into a system context.
Sensor Registration
Sensor Resource Management
Lethality Instrumentation
UAS Payload Integration
Virtual Systems Prototyping
Innovative solutions for real-time, autonomous sensor registration monitoring, and correction using High and Low Accuracy Ephemeris satellites.
Advanced algorithms using a Constraint Satisfaction Programming (CSP) environment that provides real-time resource planning for distributed Ballistic Missile Defense sensors in a multi-raid, multi-target environment.
Innovative optics-based instrumentation and software specializing in live-fire detonating warhead and high energy impact data collections to improve and benchmark weapon effects models.
Development, integration, and demonstration of a modular prototype fire control system for an Unmanned Aircraft System (UAS).
Torch provides realistic 3D laser system virtual testbed where engineers explore design trades and soldiers explore mission operations.
RISK REDUCTION
Reducing Collateral Damage and Risk to Civilians
Torch is developing and fielding a high-speed optical sensor suite to collect and interpret missile intercept signatures; physics-based phenomenological models to describe the brief optical flash; and innovative instrumentation systems integrated with automated data processing and data fusion algorithms to capture fragment mass, geometry and velocity information. Our latest innovation is an optical system that will be fielded at test ranges across the United States. This system will help reduce risk of a weapon system’s collateral damage and help protect civilians through more accurate characterization of system behavior.

--- Page: https://twitter.com/TorchHuntsville ---



--- Page: https://torchtechnologies.com/solutions/modeling-simulation/ ---

Creating Simulation Training
Budget constraints continue to challenge Department of Defense programs requiring new and innovative approaches to reduce training cost and increase efficiency. Fortunately, the gaming industry is providing opportunities for the DoD to capitalize on massive commercial Research & Development in technologies that are directly transferable to the development of virtual training products. These technologies allow the development of interactive environments that can complement training and reduce the number of high-cost hardware trainers required, significantly reducing overall program training cost. Commercial-off-the-shelf (COTS) hardware and software is available which allows rapid development of prototypes that are exportable to numerous platforms to include Personal Computer, mobile, tablet, Virtual Reality, Augmented Reality, and Mixed Reality.
Advanced VizLab
The Advanced Vizlab is staffed by some of the industry’s most talented engineers and artists and consists of video production equipment and commercial game development tools. The laboratory also houses state-of-the-art mixed-reality devices and facilities that Torch uses to stay on the leading edge of virtual training trends.
Fully Immersive Environment
High Fidelity Visuals
Get Started Quickly
Commercial Hardware
Train Anywhere
Explore Scenarios with complete freedom to move around and interact with virtual objects.
Highly realistic hardware models both in aesthetics and functionality. Virtual hardware looks and works like their real-world counterparts.
An ideal, low-cost supplement to train high-cost equipment and/or assets with high operational tempo.
Maximizes use of readily available gaming and entertainment software development tools.
Able to support both classroom-based, instructor-led initial training and individual refresher training at deployed sites.
MODELING DEVELOPMENT
Digitizing Modeling and Simulations
Torch manages, develops, and validates a variety of simulations and simulation tools, including emulators and simulators, to facilitate a complete understanding of the operational system environment. We develop simulations based on complex mathematical and phenomenology models for a variety of problem domains including the following: platform; interceptor; threat sensor; and Command, Control, Communications and Computers (C4). Torch incorporates these complex models into larger system simulations for analysis of system-wide problems in a variety of areas such as integrated air and missile defense, ballistic missile defense sensor and weapon performance, and integrated UAS weapon system performance.
High-Fidelity 6-DoF
Hardware-in-the-Loop
Threat Engineering
Virtual Engagement
Performance Analysis
Verification & Validation
Physics-based modeling of interceptors, aviation platforms and threats, including detailed models of aerodynamics, guidance and control systems, navigation components, sensors, and data links.
Modeling and simulation representations to support all-digital elements of system-level and component HWIL facilities including platform, interceptor, weapon control, battle management, and threat.
Model representations of adversary missiles, aircraft, drones, and towed targets, including trajectories, signatures, and lethality/vulnerability.
High-fidelity interceptor models integrated with tactical systems to support live testing with actual targets, sensors, and weapon control components
Operational, battle space, and detailed engagement analysis using tools developed to support efficient production, collection, and analysis of performance data.
Refinement and validation of simulations utilizing test data that includes truth data from data collections such as flight tests, ground tests, and HWIL tests.
MULTI-SPECTRAL SCENE GENERATION
Advanced State-of-the-Art
Torch developed an innovative multi-spectral simulation software and modeling process that takes advantage of modern massively parallel hardware. Traditional terrain scene modeling solutions often require 2-4 weeks of execution time on a High-Performance Compute cluster, while Torch’s solution completes the same work on a single computer using high performance GPU’s in less than 24 hours. Our solution drastically reduced runtime allowed for many fidelity enhancements that were previously not feasible. Torch has also developed multi-spectral topography models for EO/IR and RF bands in denied areas. These advanced technologies have broad applications in the development of advanced seekers, detection systems, and active protection systems.

--- Page: https://torchtechnologies.com/solutions/engineering/ ---

We Design
Torch possesses prototyping capabilities in electromechanical, mechanical, optical, and software systems. We perform state-of-the-art research, development, design, fabrication, testing, and evaluation of electronic, electromechanical, and mechanical partial and full-scale systems. We use the results in concept development, proof of concept, component integration, and live system test and evaluation. We conduct electronic design and fabrication at all levels, including breadboard, brassboard, and flight-qualified printed circuit board (PCB). Results are integrated with mechanical design and machined assemblies to make final test articles. Our delivered systems include multipurpose miniaturized airborne data logger, specialized airborne underwing video pods, multi-band optical flight hardware, sensor registration algorithms, and UAS/weapons control software. These programs involve an extensive use of inexpensive commercial-off-the-shelf (COTS) hardware and software components.
Optical Systems
Electronics & Avionics
Mechanical Systems
Communication Systems
Torch performs research, development, maintenance, and calibration of highly specialized ground-based and airborne optical equipment using our in-house optics laboratory. Lab resources include optics tables, work benches, design tools, blackbody sources, and design suites such as FRED and Zemax.
Torch provides design and prototyping of electronic and avionics systems using our in-house electronics laboratory. The lab is fully stocked with electronic test equipment, specialized equipment for MIL-STD-1553 and ARINC communications protocols, PCB design suites such as Mentor Graphics PADS, embedded FPGA design suites such as Altera Quartus Prime, prototype fabrication and assembly equipment such as reflow ovens and rework stations.
Torch’s mechanical solutions team is equipped with design and simulation tools such as SolidWorks, SolidWorks Simulation, and AutoCAD. These resources enable Torch to perform structural analysis on new and existing mechanical designs using finite element analysis. The mechanical team uses in-house additive manufacturing and machining capabilities to produce high-quality articles.
Torch performs research, development, and maintenance to test logical integration of small munitions, aircraft avionics, and ground control station software. The configurable lab consists of avionics hardware, data link emulators, GPS navigation, ground station software, and tactical weapons emulators used for system verifications. These lab resources provide reusable tools for weapon life cycle maintenance, off site testing, and procurement support.
Robotics, AI, Sensing and Systems (RASS) Rover - The RASS Rover was developed in TIPC to evaluate sensors and mapping algorithms to test autonomous operation that is necessary for exploration and construction of lunar habitats. Mechanical mounting systems and electronics required for the sensors were also designed, manufactured, and integrated within TIPC.
Tethered Aerial Persistent Platform System - TAPPS is a tethered, quad-rotor UAV, that can carry a heavy payload at high altitude for an extended duration. The strong, light-weight tether carries power from the ground and contains a fiber optic cable that provides high bandwidth, secure communications with the platform and sensors. TAPPs’ ultra-light weight design makes it rapidly deployable and highly maneuverable.
Robotics, AI, Sensing and Systems (RASS) Rover - The RASS Rover was developed in TIPC to evaluate sensors and mapping algorithms to test autonomous operation that is necessary for exploration and construction of lunar habitats. Mechanical mounting systems and electronics required for the sensors were also designed, manufactured, and integrated within TIPC.
Tethered Aerial Persistent Platform System - TAPPS is a tethered, quad-rotor UAV, that can carry a heavy payload at high altitude for an extended duration. The strong, light-weight tether carries power from the ground and contains a fiber optic cable that provides high bandwidth, secure communications with the platform and sensors. TAPPs’ ultra-light weight design makes it rapidly deployable and highly maneuverable.
SYSTEMS ENGINEERING
We Engineer Systems
Torch applies traditional and non-traditional interdisciplinary engineering expertise to advance the Warfighter’s “art of the possible” in broad domains of weapons, manned and unmanned platforms, software, sensors, data fusion, management, and systems integration. We promote collaboration across government/contractor lines and empower our team to be innovative in our approach to fulfilling technical requirements and engineering solutions. We excel at experimentation and acceleration of technology in lab environments fully using high-level prototyping possible to reduce risk, but always with a focus on field application.
Requirement Flow-Down & Allocation
Risk Assessment
System Interoperability
System Verification
Maintenance of the program technical baseline including allocation of requirements to build capabilities, requirements flow down, and requirements traceability.
Identification, assessment, and tracking risks at the program and system and sub-system levels, including the development and maintenance of knowledge points and risk management plans.
Assessing interaction of systems and systems of systems using all-digital and Hardware-in-the-Loop (HWIL) simulations to include complex representations of weapons and tactical communications systems, including a wide range of tactical data links and protocols.
System performance test and verification to verify Prime Development Specification (PIDS) and technical compliance criteria. We also engage in identification of Critical Engagement Conditions (CEC) and Empirical Measurement Events (EME) that define the test data required to support verification.
PRODUCT ENGINEERING
We Engineer Products
Our engineers are experienced in designing electronic, mechanical, and optical systems. Through our Technology Integration and Prototyping Center (TIPC), we can rapidly produce, integrate, and test complex product prototypes. For turnkey solutions, our engineering teams create detailed project schedules to mitigate risk and conducts regular in-progress reviews to ensure the final design will meet expectations.
Electronic Design
Mechanical Design
Optical Sensors
Reverse Engineering
Fabrication
Our electronics team specializes in the development of both analog and digital systems, printed circuit board design and layout, and embedded firmware development. We provide both FPGA and embedded microcontroller design capabilities.
Our mechanical team is equipped with state-of-the-art design and simulation tools such as SolidWorks and Siemens STAR-CCM+. When developing complex designs, we perform Multiphysics simulations to ensure products are capable of meeting specifications prior to fabrication.
Our optics team specializes in design and development of multi-band optical sensors, with nationally renowned expertise in high-speed data acquisition systems and radiometers. The team’s capabilities include lens design, electro-optical interface design, and data acquisition design.
Our electrical team specializes in reverse engineering of electronic components, as well as analog and digital interfaces. Our mechanical team specializes in reverse engineering and integration with complex geometries, materials, surface coatings.
Our prototyping and manufacturing team consists of industry-certified electronic technicians, machinists, and welders to fabricate prototypes and provide low-volume manufacturing of end-items.
Fully Integrated Turnkey Solutions
Applications
We assign multi-disciplinary engineering teams to develop solutions and equip them with design tools, configuration management systems, and in-house fabrication resources needed to ensure success. These teams are also paired with specialists who understand the operational and logistical needs to make a solution successful in the field. This work environment has enabled our team to successfully fabricate large-scale prototypes at rapid pace. One such program received limited airworthiness certification in only six months after fabrication began. Other applications include:
Automotive Systems
Autonomous and Robotic Systems
Avionic Components
Obsolete Electronic Replacements
Power Management Systems
Proof of Concept Hardware
Range Instrumentation
Telemetry Systems
Test & Support Equipment
Unmanned Aerial Systems
RESEARCH PARTNERSHIPS
Rapid Innovation and Prototyping Relationships
Torch maintains memberships in multiple DoD and industry consortia. As a member of the Defense Ordinance Technology Consortium (DOTC), our goal is to collaborate among Government, industry partners, and Academia for purposes of ordnance technology development and prototyping. As an active member of the National Advanced Mobility Consortium (NAMC), Torch’s goal is to provide advanced research in a broad range of ground vehicle, autonomous, and system technologies.
SEE CONSORTIUM
TIPC MANUFACTURING FACILITY
TIPC Facility
Torch provides end-to-end product design and development services, bringing ideas from an initial concept all the way through production and sustainment. Our engineering teams possess decades of experience designing electronic, mechanical, and optical systems. Through our Technology Integration and Prototyping Center (TIPC), we can rapidly produce, integrate, and test complex product prototypes.
WHAT'S TIPC
TIPC Solutions
Our offerings include both design consultation services as well as turnkey product development. For turnkey solutions, our engineering teams create detailed project schedules to mitigate risk and conducts regular in-progress reviews to ensure the final design will meet expectations.
NEED HELP? LET'S TALK

--- Page: https://torchtechnologies.com/contracts/d3i-domain-2/ ---

D3I Domain 2
Torch Technologies is pleased to announce it was awarded the $504M U.S. Army Space and Missile Defense Command (SMDC)/Army Strategic Command (ARSTRAT) "Design, Development, Demonstration, and Integration" (D3I) contract. Torch's award focuses on the Domain 2 Program to provide information integration and data exploitation solutions to support the Warfighter. USASMDC/ARSTRAT serves as the Army force modernization proponent for space, high altitude and global missile defense; conducts space and missile defense operations; provides planning, integration, control and coordination of Army forces and capabilities in support of U.S. Strategic Command missions; provides research and development of material solutions as well as combat development solutions in support of the Prompt Global Strike and air and missile defense missions; and conducts mission-related research and development in support of Army Title 10 responsibilities.
The work to be completed by Torch and its team members will be primarily conducted in Huntsville, AL and Colorado Springs, CO. The ID/IQ contract has a five year base period with two option periods of two years each. "We are very excited about the D3I program. We are making major investments into our facilities and laboratories as we expand our emphasis on integration," Torch President John Watson said, "and we look forward to working with SMDC/ARSTRAT to bring new and cost effective capabilities to the Warfighter."
November 18, 2016
Torch Wins $10M (WSSD) Task Order
Torch Technologies is pleased to announce it was awarded the $10M D3I Domain 2 - Wargames, Simulation & Scenario Development (WSSD) Task Order. Torch's…

--- Page: https://torchtechnologies.com/solutions/engineering/tipc/ ---

Torch Brings Products to Life
Torch provides end-to-end product design and development services. Within our Technology Integration and Prototyping Center (TIPC), our engineering teams are equipped with the tools and resources needed to create and produce innovative designs and prototypes.
We assign multi-disciplinary engineering teams to develop solutions and equip them with design tools, configuration management systems, and in-house fabrication resources needed to ensure success.
We rapidly produce, integrate, and test complex product prototypes across a multitude of manned and unmanned aviation, ground, and missile systems and subsystems.
TIPC is equipped to assist our customers through low-rate initial production needs.
Contact Our Engineering Team
Multi-Purposed Labs
Research & Development Facilities
The TIPC consists of both primary and re-configurable laboratories. Our reconfigurable laboratories provide space to segment work, protect customer privacy, and facilitate special security needs. All laboratories meet minimum design specifications that allow us to segment and secure various customer projects, while maximizing shared resources. When combined with our software engineering and technical writing groups, the primary electronics, optics, and mechanical laboratories provide Torch with an in-house capability to design, prototype, integrate, and fabricate entire systems. All of our labs and design teams use state-of-the-art design tools and secure configuration management systems with off-premise disaster recovery capabilities.
44,700 SF Facility
5,500 SF High Bay with heavy-duty floor and rapid prototyping area
Primary electronics lab – extensive Surface Mount Technology (SMT) and reverse-engineering equipment
Primary optics & calibration lab – tables, blackbody sources
17+ re-configurable research laboratories with classified-capable access with ESD workspaces
Labs for optics, calibration, and electronics
ESD compliant work surfaces and flooring throughout
FM-200 waterless fire suppression in select laboratories
Machining and Fabrication
Light Manufacturing Facility
Our facility includes additional high bay and machining space for prototype and end-item fabrication. These facilities are staffed by industry-certified professionals, and our production efforts operate under AS9100D and ISO 14001 quality and environmental processes.
40,600 SF facility
22,500 SF climate-controlled, securable High Bay
Machining, welding, sheet-metal, and large-scale integration capability
Separate steel welding area to segment clean/dirty fabrication
Clean room capable
Lay-down yard, quality inspection, kitting, and assembly areas
Robotics and artificial intelligence / machine learning laboratory
Classified-capable construction with large roll-up doors to existing area
140 ft end-to-end bridge crane (10 ton) for large project fabrication and integration
Engineering Design
Expansive R&D and Prototyping Space
Over 85,000 SF of design, development, and integration space
20+ research laboratories, classified capable construction
Extensive laboratory and benchtop equipment
Precision CNC machining, sheet/metal working, and welding
Prototyping
Specialized Laboratories & Engineering Design
Electronic, optical, mechanical and software systems
Optical calibration laboratory
Reverse engineering for obsolescence mitigation
Experience with aviation platforms, weapon system, ground vehicles, unmanned systems, and sensors
Our Commitment to Quality
Quality Processes
Torch is committed to customer satisfaction and continual improvement to meet all our customer’s needs and expectations.

--- Page: https://vimeo.com/torchtechnologies ---



--- Page: https://torchtechnologies.com/contracts/consortium-membership/ ---

Consortium Membership
As a
nontraditional defense contractor
and member of several consortia, Torch delivers high technology solutions as a prime contractor to the Department of Defense and other Government Agencies through Other Transaction Agreements (OTAs). Torch greatly values this opportunity to productize our advanced research and development activities to deliver prototypes that enhance mission effectiveness for the Warfighter. We accomplish this through active collaboration with our customers to respond to needs provided through consortiums in which we are members.
Aviation & Missile Technology Consortium (AMTC)
Consortium for Command, Control and Communications (C5)
Consortium for Energy, Environment and Demilitarization (CEED)
Department of Defense Ordnance Technology Consortium (DOTC), National Armaments Consortium (NAC)
National Advanced Mobility Consortium (NAMC)
Naval Aviation Systems Consortium (NASC)
Naval Surface Technology & Innovation Consortium (NSTIC)
Sensors, Communications and Electronics Consortium (SCEC)
System of Systems Consortium (SOSSEC)
Undersea Technology Innovation Consortium (UTIC)

--- Page: https://torchtechnologies.com/company/company-profile/torch-in-action/ ---

Torch In Action
Torch in Action, the service and outreach arm of Torch Helps, has coordinated several volunteer opportunities for our employee-owners since its inception in 2005. The main scope of Torch in Action is to provide Torch employees opportunities to volunteer in the local community by sharing information concerning available small scale service projects as well as planning, organizing, and implementing larger scale service-oriented projects.
COMMUNITY ACTION
What We Do
What We Do Torch in Action provides no financial support, it is instead focused on giving back through service. Torch in Action has participated in Salute to Service, Relay for Life, yard cleanup days at 305 8th Street, worked at food distribution centers organizing donated items, built ramps with the Care Assurance System for the Aging and Homebound for the elderly, hosted food, clothing, medical supplies, coats, and book drives, adopted angels from the Salvation Army angel tree, volunteered ringing bells for the Salvation Army, helped establish a STEM Lab for a local Boys & Girls Club, and ultimately helped make employee-owners aware of volunteer opportunities in the community.
GET INTO ACTION
Action Within the Community
Torch in Action advocates for service within our communities. Our employees have given back to their communities in many ways. We are active in our churches, schools and many volunteer organizations. We are parents, brothers, sisters, friends, mentors, advisors, grandparents, and so much more. We have created a work environment that reinforces the fact that coaching tee-ball is far more important than a management strategy session. After all, what value is it to earn a living if you do not take the time to have a life?

--- Page: https://www.google.com/maps/dir/34.7471722,-86.5816888/4090+Memorial+Pkwy+SW,+Huntsville,+AL+35802/@34.7133979,-86.6238292,13z/data=!3m1!4b1!4m17!1m7!3m6!1s0x886212d48a777f45:0x9be97d8b45c2c4d5!2s4090+Memorial+Pkwy+SW,+Huntsville,+AL+35802!3b1!8m2!3d34.6776571!4d-86.5779639!4m8!1m1!4e1!1m5!1m1!1s0x886212d48a777f45:0x9be97d8b45c2c4d5!2m2!1d-86.5779639!2d34.6776571 ---



--- Page: https://torchtechnologies.com/contracts/rs3/ ---

RS3
RESPONSIVE STRATEGIC SOURCING FOR SERVICES (RS3) IDIQ
The $37.4 billion, 5 year base (plus 5 option years), multiple award IDIQ RS3 contract vehicle is a Multiple Award Indefinite Delivery, Indefinite Quantity (IDIQ) that provides customized best value solutions to Army Contracting Command – Aberdeen Proving Ground (ACC-APG) customers, Program Executive Offices (PEOs) other Department of Defense (DoD) and federal agencies with knowledge based support services for Command, Control, Communications, Computers, Cyber, Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance (C5ISR) requirements including: Engineering; Research, Development, Test and Evaluation (RDT&E); Logistics; Acquisition and Strategic Planning; Education and Training Services.

--- Page: https://torchtechnologies.com/events/space-and-missile-defense-(smd)-symposium/ ---

Events
Events
>
Space & Missile Defense (SMD) Symposium
Space & Missile Defense (SMD) Symposium
Tuesday, August 05, 2025
August 5-7, 2025 |
Von Braun Center -
Huntsville, AL  | Booth #125
TAGS:
Intern
Military
Upcoming Events
April 30, 2025
Michigan Career Expo
November 17, 2025
AAAA Cribbins Readiness Conference
August 12, 2025
Ground Vehicle Systems Engineering & Technology Symposium…
August 05, 2025
Space & Missile Defense (SMD) Symposium

--- Page: https://torchtechnologies.com/solutions/environmental/ ---

Caring for People and our Planet
Every day our scientist and engineers navigate complex issues associated with environmental compliance, research and development. We are at the forefront of qualifying new materials and processes that improve safety and that are better for our environment. Our compliance team conducts audits and verifies that operations are complaint with all Federal, State, and Local environmental laws and regulations and statues/regulations from Department of Defense (DOD), Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA), Executive Orders and International treaties/laws such as REACH, RoHS and WEE pertaining to environmental compliance and protection.
Energy Efficiency
Energy Efficiency
Torch has experience with developing and executing energy efficient projects. The focus is on projects where the utilization of energy and natural resources is maintained as low as practicable. This leads to enhanced conservation, reduced Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emissions and a reduction in operating costs.
Compliance Audits
Compliance Audits
Torch engineers and analysts provide comprehensive site compliance audits. These audits focus on environmental and occupational health compliance. Our highly skilled team helps to develop corrective action plans and tracking methods to ensure its customers and meeting applicable standards and guidelines.
Environmental Project Management
Environmental Project Management
Project managers run many concurrent projects which lead to improved environmental compliance, waste reduction and process improvement. Our employees have been instrumental in saving installations thousands of dollars.
Chemical & Process Substitutions
Chemical & Process Substitutions
Torch identifies potential material and process substitutions that replace toxic chemicals and materials with alternatives that are environmentally benign and otherwise sustainable in the face of ever-tightening regulations. When a specific alternative is determined to have a high potential for successful implementation, Torch prepares project and test plans to remedy the data gaps and assists with implementation.
Safety
Safety
Torch identifies potential material and process substitutions that replace toxic chemicals and materials with alternatives that are environmentally benign and otherwise sustainable in the face of ever-tightening regulations. When a specific alternative is determined to have a high potential for successful implementation, Torch prepares project and test plans to remedy the data gaps and assists with implementation. Safety is a top priority at Torch; our success is a direct reflection of our employee's well-being and safety. Our safety programs are designed to protect all employees, visitors, and contractors.

--- Page: https://torchtechnologies.com/employees/ ---

Employee Resources
Single Sign-On Portal
Password Management
RSA Token Management
Retirement Benefits
ENTER
Single Sign-On Portal
ENTER
Password Management
ENTER
RSA Token Management
ENTER
Retirement Benefits

--- Page: https://torchtechnologies.com/assets/pdf/torch-purchase-order-terms-and-conditions-2020-1.pdf ---



--- Page: https://torchtechnologies.com/ ---

WE ARE
+
TORCH TECHNOLOGIES
Torch Technologies, Inc. is a 100 percent employee-owned business dedicated to quality technical services, competitive costs, and ethical business practices.
SEE OUR SOLUTIONS
TORCH GOLF TOURNAMENT
BENEFITS VILLAGE OF PROMISE
Torch, Freedom Real Estate, and Starfish Holdings annual golf tournament raises money for the Huntsville, AL family advancement center.
HOW MUCH WAS DONATED?
TORCH ACHIEVES
EVERGREEN STATUS
Becoming Certified Evergreen™ means that Torch has committed to finding ways to
make 100 percent employee-ownership sustainable so that Torch will remain a
private company forever.
LEARN MORE ABOUT 100 YEAR PROFITABILITY
TECHNOLOGY INTEGRATION AND PROTOTYPING CENTER (TIPC)
BRINGS PRODUCTS TO LIFE
Our offerings include both design consultation services as well as turnkey product development.
LEARN MORE ABOUT TIPC SOLUTIONS
Torch Technologies is
Lighting the Pathway of Freedom
Thank you for your interest in Torch Technologies. We are a 100% employee owned company headquartered in Huntsville, Alabama with employee owners located in Colorado, Florida, Hawaii, Maryland, Massachusetts, Michigan, New Mexico, Ohio, Oklahoma, Texas, Virginia, Washington, D.C., Kwajalein, and Egypt. We provide superior research, development, and engineering services to the Federal Government and Department of Defense. As one of the nation's top 100 defense companies, the services we provide directly support the men and women who serve our country. Our corporate mission statement sums up the pride our employee owners take in the work we do: "Lighting the Pathway of Freedom."
SEE WHO WE ARE
→
Latest Solutions
Obsolescence Management | Organic Repair Development | Form-Fit-Function Re-Design | Counterfeit Risk Management
Lifecycle Sustainment
Torch Partners with Government-Industry
Energy Efficiency | Compliance Audits | Environmental Project Management | Chemical & Process Substitutions | Safety
Environmental & Safety
Caring for People and our Planet
Optical Systems | Electronics & Avionics | Mechanical Systems | Communication Systems
Engineering
We Design
High-Fidelity 6-DoF | Hardware-in-the-Loop | Threat Engineering | Virtual Engagement | Performance Analysis | Verification & Validation
Modeling & Simulation
Creating Simulation Training
Test Architecture & Scenario Design | Test Resources & Provisioning | Pre-Mission Risk Reduction Analysis | Post-Mission Data Reduction & Analysis
Test & Evaluation
Torch Expertise is on a Global Scale
Real-Time Applications | Enterprise Applications | Open Architecture | Model-Based Software
Software Development
High-End Enterprise to Embedded Software
Sensor Registration | Data Fusion | Sensor Resource Management | Lethality Instrumentation | UAS Payload Integration
Advanced Technologies
From Ideas to Reality
Software Assurance | Network Defense & Intrusion Detection | Risk Management Framework | Cloud Security
Cybersecurity & IT
Cybersecurity & Information Technology
Torch Technologies, a 100% employee-owned technology services and solutions company headquartered in Huntsville, Alabama, is proud to announce that it is now Certified EvergreenTM. Becoming Certified EvergreenTM means that Torch has committed to finding ways to make 100 percent employee ownership sustainable so that Torch will remain a private company forever.
0
WASHINGTON TECHNOLOGY TOP 100 FEDERAL CONTRACTORS RANKING
0
CONSECUTIVE LISTINGS ON INC. 5000 FASTEST GROWING COMPANIES
0
LOCAL NON-PROFITS SUPPORTED WITH OVER $5.2 MILLION IN EMPLOYEE AND CORPORATE GIVING
0
CONSECUTIVE YEARS LISTED AS ONE OF THE NATION'S BEST WORKPLACES
News & Events
April 30, 2025
Michigan Career Expo
Torch will be attending the Michigan Career Expo on April 30 from 9 a.m. - 3 p.m. at the Radisson Hotel…
April 18, 2025
SIMVANA Partners with Huntsville Hospital Health System on Development of SIMVANA Nursing
Platform Will Address High Costs and Training Demand Associated with Onboarding New Nursing Staff
HUNTSVILLE,…
November 17, 2025
AAAA Cribbins Readiness Conference
November 17-19, 2025 | Huntsville, AL | Booth #1315
August 12, 2025
Ground Vehicle Systems Engineering & Technology Symposium (GVSETS)
August 12-14, 2025 | Novi, MI   | Booth #327
August 05, 2025
Space & Missile Defense (SMD) Symposium
August 5-7, 2025 | Von Braun Center - Huntsville, AL  | Booth #125
March 06, 2025
Bill Roark Announces Retirement
Roark to Continue Board Roles and Serve as Advisor
HUNTSVILLE, Ala., March 3, 2025 – Starfish Holdings…
February 21, 2025
Jackson County Schools Host SIMVANA Anesthesia Demo Day
Partnership Accelerates Career Skill Development for Jackson County Youth
Hollywood, Ala., February…
February 05, 2025
Starfish Holdings Appoints Cindy Walz to Board of Directors
Torch CFO Brings Wealth of Experience to Starfish Board
 HUNTSVILLE, Ala., February 4, 2025 – Starfish…
Episode 42: ESOP Culture with Bill Roark
May 30, 2025
In this episode of Keeping The Dream Alive, we sit down with Bill Roark, co-founder of Torch Technologies, for a deep dive into the company's unique ESOP…
Let's Connect!
Subject Line*
What is this communication about?
Torch Accessibility
Torch Capabilities
Torch Engineering
Torch Contract or Teaming
Torch Public Affairs
Selling to Torch
General Questions
Purchase Order Terms
Name*
Email*
Phone
Comment
GET OUR ATTENTION
→

--- Page: https://torchtechnologies.com/events/ ---

Events
Upcoming Events
April 30, 2025
Michigan Career Expo
Torch will be attending the Michigan Career Expo on April 30 from 9 a.m. - 3 p.m. at the Radisson Hotel - 26555 Telegraph Road, Southfield, Michigan.
You…
August 05, 2025
Space & Missile Defense (SMD) Symposium
August 5-7, 2025 | Von Braun Center - Huntsville, AL  | Booth #125
August 12, 2025
Ground Vehicle Systems Engineering & Technology Symposium…
August 12-14, 2025 | Novi, MI   | Booth #327
November 17, 2025
AAAA Cribbins Readiness Conference
November 17-19, 2025 | Huntsville, AL | Booth #1315
Past Events

--- Page: https://torchtechnologies.com/contracts/mda-teams/ ---

MDA TEAMS
Under the Technical, Engineering, Advisory, and Management Support (TEAMS) and TEAMS Next family of contracts Torch provides broad research, development, engineering, and technical support as a prime and subcontractor to the Missile Defense Agency (MDA). This includes support for various missile defense activities, such as: engineering, test, and analysis.

--- Page: https://torchtechnologies.com/contracts/gsa-astro/ ---

GSA ASTRO
ASTRO is a broadly scoped series of contract vehicles encompassing virtually all services supporting or involving manned, unmanned, or optionally manned platforms and robotics.
ASTRO is administered by the General Services Administration's (GSA) Office of Assisted Acquisition Service (AAS) FEDSIM Organization. It is a family of ten separate, individual, Multiple Award (MA), Indefinite Delivery/Indefinite Quantity (IDIQ) contracts. ASTRO orders may only be placed by authorized COs within GSA's Assisted Acquisition Service.
Contractual Point of Contact
Mr. Andy Kimbrough
Contracts Manager
256.319.7424
andy.kimbrough@torchtechnologies.com
Technical Point of Contact
Ms. Karen Mimms
Director, Enterprise Program Management
256.319.6988
karen.mimms@torchtechnologies.com
Official GSA ASTRO Web Page
Follow this link to learn more about the contract on the official U.S. Government General Services Administration (GSA) Web Page.
OUR ASTRO POOLS
ASTRO services are organized into ten functional pools, with the appropriate pool selected for task order solicitation based upon the preponderance of work in the requirement being solicited. Torch Technologies was awarded prime contracts in the following pools.
Development / Systems Integration
Development / Systems Integration
NAICS 541330
Systems Integration, Improvement, and/or Engineering Associated with Manned, Unmanned, and Optionally Manned Platforms.
Research and Development
Research and Development
NAICS 541715
All R&D Associated with Manned, Unmanned, Optionally Manned, and Counter Unmanned Systems (UxS) Platforms.
Support
Support
NAICS 541990
All Support Services (Except Training) Required for Successful Execution of a Product, Program, Project, or Process Regarding Platforms and Robotics for Land, Air, Sea, or Space; the Planning Necessary to Support Operational Missions; and the Analysis of the Results of an Operational Mission.
Training
Training
NAICS 611699
All Training (the Providing of Instruction) Services Required for Successful Execution of a Product, Program, Project, or Process Regarding Platforms and/or Robotics for Land, Air, Sea, or Space.

--- Page: https://torchtechnologies.com/company/contact-us/ ---

Contact Torch
You've got Questions and we've got Answers
How may we help you? Want to sell something? Need to contact our engineering team?
Subject Line*
What is this communication about?
Torch Accessibility
Torch Capabilities
Torch Engineering
Torch Contract or Teaming
Torch Public Affairs
Selling to Torch
General Questions
Purchase Order Terms
Name*
Email*
Phone
Comment
SEND

--- Page: https://www.facebook.com/TorchTechnologiesInc/ ---



--- Page: tel:2563196000 ---



--- Page: https://torchtechnologies.com/solutions/test-evaluation/ ---

Torch Expertise is on a Global Scale
Torch provides research, development, engineering, scientific, and analytical disciplines to ensure that developed systems have been properly tested and evaluated. These disciplines include test architecture and scenario design, test planning, test resources and provisioning, pre-mission risk reduction analysis, and post-mission data reduction and analysis. We develop software to parse, reduce, and analyze raw data collected from the tested system. Torch supports a full range of test articles (component, system, system of systems) and test venues (HWIL, flight test, ground test).
Test Architecture & Scenario Design
Test Resources & Provisioning
Pre-Mission Risk Reduction Analysis
Post-Mission Data Reduction & Analysis
Operational and threat representative designs that exercise the system under test in an executable, cost-efficient manner, yielding a data set that meets all system evaluation requirements.
Identification, management, and deconfliction of all test resources, such as instrumentation, telemetry, range sensors, communications, and facilities required for successful test execution and data collection.
Pre-mission risk reduction activities using digital and HWIL simulations, identification and analysis of risk items, and pre-mission checkouts of the system under test.
Reduction and analysis of collected test data to validate test construct or conditions, assess system performance, and identify observed anomalies.
Torch Tests and Evaluates
Torch Tests and Evaluates
Torch analytical teams are continually advancing the tools, processes, and phenomenology needed to analyze our ability to defend against increasingly complex systems. Torch teams leverage artificial intelligence through machine learning to create better testing results. Through using AI, our teams can overcome many hurdles of automated software testing.

--- Page: mailto:public.affairs@torchtechnologies.com ---



--- Page: https://torchtechnologies.com/careers/internship/ ---

Torch Internship Program
Torch Technologies offer students and recent graduates paid internships that deliver hands-on training and mentorship. The internship program is designed to work alongside professionals in various fields including engineering, business operations, finance, and information technology. Interns at Torch Technologies gain practical experience in real-world scenarios, fostering both personal and professional growth.
Torch Offers Interns
Paid work assignments in summer sessions.
A culture that values teamwork, communication, collaboration, and professional development.
Networking opportunities.
UAH Interns
Auburn Interns
Mississippi State Intern
University of Alabama Interns
Alabama A&M Intern
Career Fields Torch Frequently Hires within
Aerospace Engineering
Positions may focus on design, development, testing and production of various systems and equipment which may include aerodynamics, materials, propulsion, and/or mechanics.
Mechanical Engineering
Positions may focus on manufacturing, robotics, and/or product design.  Positions may work with machine design, testing, and/or control systems.
Electrical Engineering
Positions may focus on circuit analysis, control systems, digital system design, telecommunications, and/or signal processing.  Positions ma work with hardware, control systems, or electronic manufacturing.
Information Technology
Positions may focus on developing or customizing software solutions to improve business process while maintaining, configuring, and integrating systems within network administration, IT support, cybersecurity, and/or database management.
Computer Science
Positions may focus on developing new algorithms and efficient solutions to complex problems such as in research, AI/ML, algorithms, data encryption, software prototyping, including modeling and simulation, and/or system architecture.
System Engineering
Positions may focus on integrating complex systems and ensuring functionality, reliability, and efficiency. Tasks may involve systems design, development, and analysis, covering aspects such as systems architecture, modeling and simulation, requirements engineering, and system validation and verification. Positions may work across various disciplines, coordinating with software and other engineering fields to ensure system coherence and performance. The role may also include project management, risk assessment, and optimization of system performance and lifecycle management.
Software Engineering
Positions may focus on applying engineering principles to design, develop and maintain software systems with a focus on project management, and quality assurance.
Virtual Reality (VR) Design
Positions may focus on creating immersive, interactive 3D environments for VR platforms.  These tasks may involve designing virtual spaces, user interfaces and experiences that are both intuitive and engaging; tasks may blend technical skills in 3D modeling and animation with an understanding of user interaction in virtual spaces; position VR applications may involve gaming, training simulations, and/or various interactive experiences, ensuring captivating user journey within the virtual world.
Graphic and UI/UX Design
Positions may focus on Graphic Design, where the emphasis is on creating visual content using typography, photography, or illustration to UI/UX Design, which involves enhancing user interfaces and experiences for digital and print media; graphic design communicates messages effectively that optimizes visual appeal; UI (User Interface) designs concentrates on the visual aspects of a product; while UX (User Experience) designs focuses on understanding user behavior to improve usability and efficiency; position tasks may blend artistic and technical skills to shape user interactions with various media.
Data Science
Positions may focus on processes, algorithms, systems to extract knowledge and insights from structured/unstructured data; may combine aspects of statistics, data analysis, machine learning, and big data technologies.
Business Administration
Positions may focus on performing operational, procurement, supply chain management, and/or contracting tasks.
Finance and Accounting
Positions may focus on performing financial analysis, accounting, auditing, and/or financial reporting.
Human Resources
Positions may assist with sourcing, recruiting, training, benefits management, labor relations, performance management, auditing, and/or analysis of compliance with labor laws.
Locations
Internships are located at Torch offices across the country, including Alabama, Colorado, Florida, Michigan, Massachusetts, Ohio, Oklahoma,
and more
.
Torch internships are designed for individuals who are…
US Citizens.
At least 18 years old.
Actively enrolled as an undergraduate or graduate student in an accredited educational institution.
In good academic standing with a 3.0 GPA.
Professional with relevant skills for the position in which you apply.
Torch Intern FAQs
How do I apply?
Internships are listed on our
career's page
.
Apply to a vacancy during the open application window.
Positions are identified as “Summer Intern.”
If selected, participate in an interview.
Selections typically occur within 3-4 months of initial application.
When do Internships take place?
Torch internships take place during the summer months between May and August.
What are the eligibility requirements?
US Citizenship is required.
Students must be enrolled and in good standing with an accredited university.
A GPA of 3.0 or higher.
Will I be asked to participate in an interview?
Yes, as part of the selection process for our intern program, you will be asked to participate in an interview with a hiring manager or a team lead. This interview is a crucial step that allows us to better understand your skills, experiences, and how they align with the goals of our intern program. Here’s what you can expect:
Interview Format:
The interview will typically be a one-on-one session with a hiring manager or a team lead, though it may sometimes involve a panel of team members. Interviews may be conducted in person, over the phone, or through video conferencing, depending on location and current work arrangements.  Subject Matter Experts (SMEs) may also attend the interview.
Content of the Interview:
During the interview, you will be asked questions related to educational background, experiences, skills, and interests. The questions will be designed to assess your fit for the intern program and the specific internship for which you are applying. You may also be asked about your career aspirations and how this internship could help you achieve them.
Interactive Discussion:
We encourage you to also ask questions during the interview. This is a great opportunity for you to learn more about our company culture, the specifics of the intern program, and the day-to-day responsibilities of the internship you’re interested in.
Preparation Tips:
To prepare, we recommend reviewing the job description again, reflecting on your experiences and how they relate to the internship, and preparing some questions about the program and our company.
When will I hear if I am selected?
The intern posting will include a timeframe for the selection process.
Are internships paid?
Yes, Torch internships are paid assignments and you will be considered a W2 employee of Torch.
What types of projects are available?
Torch internships provide students a chance to work alongside professionals on real world projects. Projects will vary but all are meaningful work assignments. Students are encouraged to learn as much about the jobs they are interviewing for to determine if the project/job aligns with their major, background, and career goals.
Are letters of recommendation required?
Job references are required for internships.
Will I need to submit my transcript with all necessary information to verify academic status?
Yes, transcripts and enrollment verification are required.
What Torch benefits will I receive as an Intern?
Interns are typically ineligible for company health and welfare benefits; however, interns are eligible for Federal Paid Sick Leave accrual.
Will I receive PTO?
Interns are not eligible for Paid Time Off (PTO) or Compensatory time but will receive Federal Paid Sick Leave accruals.
What if I have scheduled a vacation during my internship?
Summer is short; our goal is to maximize intern learning experiences. Students are encouraged to maximize the internship opportunity. Memorial Day and July 4th are observed during the summer internship program, but interns do not receive holiday pay for these days.
Do interns receive ESOP?
Interns typically are ineligible for Employee Stock Ownership Program (ESOP) benefits due to length of tenure.
What events do Torch interns participate in other than work?
Torch has many opportunities for students to connect with fellow students and Torch employees. Many interns enjoy STEPS (Society of Torch Emerging Professionals) and other networking opportunities during the summer and participate in outings such as local sporting events, canoe trips, and ice cream socials.  Outside professional speakers are also invited in to educate and motivate up and coming students.
Will Torch provide housing during the internship program?
Torch does not provide housing, but we can help by providing suggestions of potential housing options.
How long is the Torch Intern program?
The Torch intern program is approximately 12-13 weeks during the summer.
INTERN HIRING EVENTS
Events
April 30, 2025
Michigan Career Expo
Torch will be attending the Michigan Career Expo on April 30 from 9 a.m. - 3 p.m. at the Radisson Hotel…
August 05, 2025
Space & Missile Defense (SMD) Symposium
August 5-7, 2025 | Von Braun Center - Huntsville, AL  | Booth #125
August 12, 2025
Ground Vehicle Systems Engineering & Technology Symposium (GVSETS)
August 12-14, 2025 | Novi, MI   | Booth #327
November 17, 2025
AAAA Cribbins Readiness Conference
November 17-19, 2025 | Huntsville, AL | Booth #1315
Apply Now
Torch maintains an excellent work environment that includes competitive compensation, outstanding benefits, and rewarding work assignments with major opportunities for advancement. This could be your opportunity to join a growing, fast-paced company that is setting standards for superior technical services. To be considered for employment opportunities, you must complete an online application.
JOIN OUR TEAM
All qualified applicants will receive consideration for employment without regard to race, color, religion, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, national origin, age, genetic information, citizenship, ancestry, marital status, protected veteran status, disability status or any other status protected by federal, state, or local law. Torch Technologies, Inc. participates in E-Verify.
If you are a qualified individual with a disability or a disabled veteran, you have the right to request a reasonable accommodation if you are unable or limited in your ability to use or access
https://torchtechnologies.hua.hrsmart.com/ats
as a result of your disability. You can request reasonable accommodations by sending an email to
HR@torchtechnologies.com
. Thank you for your interest in Torch Technologies.
E-Verify
EEO is Law
Right to Work
Torch EEO Statement

--- Page: https://torchtechnologies.com/company/company-profile/ ---

WE ARE
+
TORCH TECHNOLOGIES
Torch Technologies is a 100 percent employee-owned business dedicated to quality technical services, competitive costs, and ethical business practices.
Torch Technologies is
dedicated to providing superior research, development, and engineering services to the Department of Defense.
As defense contractors, the services we provide directly support the men and women who serve our country.
OUR MISSION
Torch Technologies helps our clients exceed their goals in the most cost-effective and time-efficient manner given their own technological, schedule, and financial constraints. Through our determined efforts, Torch employees are Lighting the Pathway of Freedom.
Our Core Attributes
Torch Technologies finds that certain core attributes are routinely used to describe the company and our employees. We reinforce our desire to maintain this reputation with every individual we hire, every business relationship we begin and with every client we serve.
Innovation
Innovation
Torch maintains a “cutting-edge” atmosphere that encourages employee creativity and thinking outside the box and allows them the freedom to take the necessary risks to implement these ideas.
Cooperation
Cooperation
Torch employees exhibit an unselfish will to achieve common corporate and customer goals as well as to help others succeed.
Excellence
Excellence
Torch employees achieve the highest levels of performance, always striving to exceed company and customer expectations.
Customer Focus
Customer Focus
Torch employees recognize that we exist to support our customers and act accordingly by knowing who our customers are and understanding their requirements and needs.
Expertise
Expertise
Torch employees strive to be world-renowned leaders in their fields of expertise, continuously upgrade their knowledge base and staying abreast of technological advancements and innovations.
Integrity
Integrity
Torch employees are honest, trustworthy, and dependable and always strive to “do the right thing.” They lead by example and always act in a way to uphold Torch corporate ethics and our reputation.
Reliability
Reliability
Torch employees are dependable and consistently lend their efforts to solve the problems at hand and to support the goals of the organization and our customers.
Torch Gives Back
Torch Technologies will help our clients exceed their goals in the most cost-effective and time-efficient manner given their own technology, schedule, and financial constraints. Through our determined effort, our Torch employees are Lighting the Pathway of Freedom.
Torch Helps
Torch In Action
Torch Gives
Torch Golfs
From the CEO's desk...
When Bill Roark and Don Holder founded Torch in 2002, they knew that employees were the company's greatest asset. They believed that offering employees a stake in the outcome, by making them all owners, was critical to building a successful organization. I share that feeling. Bill and Don's original intent was fully achieved in 2011 when Torch converted to a 100 percent S-Corp ESOP. Since that time, the company has grown over ten-fold and gained national recognition for the success we have demonstrated as an employee-owned company.
Today, Torch continues to respect the individual contributions of our employee-owners and to share the rewards of our success. In addition, we continue to foster an environment of employee recognition, respect, development, and comradery while striving to achieve a healthy work-life balance. We recognize that core to our company is a culture of trust with our employees, customers, business partners, and community. Our management team is committed to continue to earn that trust. This past year, Torch proudly announced that we were Certified Evergreen™. A timely achievement for Torch employee-owners as they will celebrate Torch’s 20th anniversary this October, becoming Certified Evergreen™ signifies that while Torch employee-owners can look back on Torch’s past with pride, Torch is also looking forward. Becoming Certified Evergreen™ means that Torch has committed to finding ways to make 100 percent employee ownership sustainable so that Torch will remain a private company forever.
Going forward, Torch will continue to evolve to address market and technology changes in order to become a major provider of cost-effective technical services and solutions to the Warfighter. We are making significant investments into facilities, equipment, business systems, and research to enable us to provide innovations and timely business services to our clients. We feel that always looking to improve our service is key to sustaining customer trust in the future. Likewise, we believe that continuing to share ownership is one of the ways we maintain employee trust and an unparalleled commitment to succeed. Combined, these timeless principles form the basis of the Torch culture. A culture that we are committed to continue and strive to pass on to the next generation of employee-owners as an Evergreen Company.
Sincerely,
John S. Watson
Chief Executive Officer
Torch Technologies, Inc.

--- Page: https://starfishholdings.com/ ---



--- Page: https://torchtechnologies.com/events/ground-vehicle-systems-engineering-and-technology-symposium-(gvsets)/ ---

Events
Events
>
Ground Vehicle Systems Engineering & Technology Symposium (GVSETS)
Ground Vehicle Systems Engineering & Technology Symposium (GVSETS)
Tuesday, August 12, 2025
August 12-14, 2025 | Novi, MI   | Booth #327
TAGS:
Intern
Military
Upcoming Events
April 30, 2025
Michigan Career Expo
November 17, 2025
AAAA Cribbins Readiness Conference
August 12, 2025
Ground Vehicle Systems Engineering & Technology Symposium…
August 05, 2025
Space & Missile Defense (SMD) Symposium

--- Page: https://torchtechnologies.com/careers/job-openings/ ---

Careers
Jump to main content
Attention Safari users: This site requires cookies to function. Please click
here
to accept the cookie. Cookies will be used strictly for the functioning of the site.
Toggle navigation
Job Search
View All Jobs
Log in
Help
Help on this Page
View All Jobs
Search Again
Quick Job Search
Advanced Job Search
Results
1
2
3
4
Displaying 1 - 25 of 100
25
10
25
50
100
per page
Jobs
Job Title
Location
Date Opened
Req. #
UEWR Radar Test Engineer
Alabama - Huntsville Huntsville, AL, US 35802
7/2/2025
7329
Supply Chain Security/Risk Professional
Florida - Eglin Air Force Base Valparaiso, FL, US 32542
6/27/2025
7180
Electrical/Hardware Design Engineer
Florida - Eglin Air Force Base Valparaiso, FL, US 32542
6/27/2025
7235
AFRL Automation, Innovation and Software Developer
Florida - Eglin Air Force Base Valparaiso, FL, US 32542
6/27/2025
7274
Acquisition Systems Engineer
Florida - Eglin Air Force Base Valparaiso, FL, US 32542
6/11/2025
6735
Configuration Manager (Senior)
Ohio - Wright Patterson AFB
4/29/2025
7134
Model Based Systems Engineer - Mid Level
Alabama - Huntsville Huntsville, AL, US 35802
2/12/2025
6431
Alarm Response Security Officer (part-time)
Colorado - Colorado Springs Colorado Springs, CO, US 80919
7/3/2025
7339
Alarm Response Security Officer (part-time)
Colorado - Colorado Springs Colorado Springs, CO, US 80919
7/3/2025
7340
Alarm Response Security Officer (part-time)
Colorado - Colorado Springs Colorado Springs, CO, US 80919
7/3/2025
7338
Alarm Response Security Officer
Colorado - Colorado Springs Colorado Springs, CO, US 80919
7/3/2025
7337
Alarm Response Security Officer
Colorado - Colorado Springs Colorado Springs, CO, US 80919
7/3/2025
7336
Test Engineer
Alabama - Huntsville Huntsville, AL, US 35802
Alabama - Redstone Arsenal Huntsville, AL, US 35808 (Primary)
7/3/2025
7334
Junior Recruiter
Ohio- Kettering Office Kettering, OH, US 45409
7/2/2025
7331
Mechanical Engineer
Florida - Eglin Air Force Base Valparaiso, FL, US 32542
7/2/2025
7333
Cybersecurity, Senior ISSM
Ohio- Kettering Office Kettering, OH, US 45409
7/2/2025
7332
Modeling & Simulation Python Developer - 3
Alabama - Huntsville Huntsville, AL, US 35802
7/2/2025
7330
Modeling and Simulation (M&S) Integration Engineer-3
Colorado Springs, CO 80901 US
7/1/2025
7328
Acquisition Analyst
Alabama - Redstone Arsenal Huntsville, AL, US 35808
6/30/2025
7327
Mid-Level Technical Data Analyst
Alabama - Huntsville Huntsville, AL, US 35802
6/30/2025
7325
Senior Program Analyst
Alabama - Huntsville Huntsville, AL, US 35802
6/30/2025
7324
Modeling & Simulation System Engineer-Junior
Alabama - Huntsville Huntsville, AL, US 35802
6/30/2025
7323
Modeling and Simulation SW Developer (Journeymen)
Alabama - Huntsville Huntsville, AL, US 35802
6/30/2025
7322
Software Developer I
Alabama - Huntsville Huntsville, AL, US 35802
6/30/2025
7321
Mid-Level Computational Fluid Dynamics Engineer
Alabama - Huntsville Huntsville, AL, US 35802
6/30/2025
7296
1
2
3
4
Displaying 1 - 25 of 100
25
10
25
50
100
per page
v18.2.0
Last sync: 2025-07-03 20:35:19

--- Page: https://torchtechnologies.com/events/aaaa-cribbins-readiness-conference/ ---

Events
Events
>
AAAA Cribbins Readiness Conference
AAAA Cribbins Readiness Conference
Monday, November 17, 2025
November 17-19, 2025 | Huntsville, AL | Booth #1315
TAGS:
Intern
Military
Upcoming Events
April 30, 2025
Michigan Career Expo
November 17, 2025
AAAA Cribbins Readiness Conference
August 12, 2025
Ground Vehicle Systems Engineering & Technology Symposium…
August 05, 2025
Space & Missile Defense (SMD) Symposium

--- Page: https://torchtechnologies.com/contracts/express/ ---

EXpedited PRofessional and Engineering Support Services
The Torch Team provides high-quality, relevant, and responsive research and development advisory and assistance services to the United States Army under our Technical Domain prime Blanket Purchase Agreement (BPA) for the EXpedited PRofessional and Engineering Support Services (EXPRESS) Program. Torch greatly values this opportunity through the EXPRESS BPA to continue our long and successful partnership with the U.S. Army and Team Redstone.
October 20, 2020
Torch Awarded AMCOM G4 Environmental Task Order
Torch Technologies is pleased to announce the recent award of a $27M task order by the US Army Aviation and Missile Command (AMCOM) to provide technical…
September 07, 2018
Torch Awarded Lifecycle Engineering Support Contract
Torch Technologies is pleased to announce it was awarded a $156.3M contract by the U.S. Army Aviation and Missile Research, Development, and Engineering…

--- Page: https://torchtechnologies.com/company/ ---

WE ARE
+
TORCH TECHNOLOGIES
Torch Technologies is a 100 percent employee-owned business dedicated to quality technical services, competitive costs, and ethical business practices.
Torch Technologies is
dedicated to providing superior research, development, and engineering services to the Department of Defense.
As defense contractors, the services we provide directly support the men and women who serve our country.
OUR MISSION
Torch Technologies helps our clients exceed their goals in the most cost-effective and time-efficient manner given their own technological, schedule, and financial constraints. Through our determined efforts, Torch employees are Lighting the Pathway of Freedom.
Our Core Attributes
Torch Technologies finds that certain core attributes are routinely used to describe the company and our employees. We reinforce our desire to maintain this reputation with every individual we hire, every business relationship we begin and with every client we serve.
Innovation
Innovation
Torch maintains a “cutting-edge” atmosphere that encourages employee creativity and thinking outside the box and allows them the freedom to take the necessary risks to implement these ideas.
Cooperation
Cooperation
Torch employees exhibit an unselfish will to achieve common corporate and customer goals as well as to help others succeed.
Excellence
Excellence
Torch employees achieve the highest levels of performance, always striving to exceed company and customer expectations.
Customer Focus
Customer Focus
Torch employees recognize that we exist to support our customers and act accordingly by knowing who our customers are and understanding their requirements and needs.
Expertise
Expertise
Torch employees strive to be world-renowned leaders in their fields of expertise, continuously upgrade their knowledge base and staying abreast of technological advancements and innovations.
Integrity
Integrity
Torch employees are honest, trustworthy, and dependable and always strive to “do the right thing.” They lead by example and always act in a way to uphold Torch corporate ethics and our reputation.
Reliability
Reliability
Torch employees are dependable and consistently lend their efforts to solve the problems at hand and to support the goals of the organization and our customers.
Torch Gives Back
Torch Technologies will help our clients exceed their goals in the most cost-effective and time-efficient manner given their own technology, schedule, and financial constraints. Through our determined effort, our Torch employees are Lighting the Pathway of Freedom.
Torch Helps
Torch In Action
Torch Gives
Torch Golfs
From the CEO's desk...
When Bill Roark and Don Holder founded Torch in 2002, they knew that employees were the company's greatest asset. They believed that offering employees a stake in the outcome, by making them all owners, was critical to building a successful organization. I share that feeling. Bill and Don's original intent was fully achieved in 2011 when Torch converted to a 100 percent S-Corp ESOP. Since that time, the company has grown over ten-fold and gained national recognition for the success we have demonstrated as an employee-owned company.
Today, Torch continues to respect the individual contributions of our employee-owners and to share the rewards of our success. In addition, we continue to foster an environment of employee recognition, respect, development, and comradery while striving to achieve a healthy work-life balance. We recognize that core to our company is a culture of trust with our employees, customers, business partners, and community. Our management team is committed to continue to earn that trust. This past year, Torch proudly announced that we were Certified Evergreen™. A timely achievement for Torch employee-owners as they will celebrate Torch’s 20th anniversary this October, becoming Certified Evergreen™ signifies that while Torch employee-owners can look back on Torch’s past with pride, Torch is also looking forward. Becoming Certified Evergreen™ means that Torch has committed to finding ways to make 100 percent employee ownership sustainable so that Torch will remain a private company forever.
Going forward, Torch will continue to evolve to address market and technology changes in order to become a major provider of cost-effective technical services and solutions to the Warfighter. We are making significant investments into facilities, equipment, business systems, and research to enable us to provide innovations and timely business services to our clients. We feel that always looking to improve our service is key to sustaining customer trust in the future. Likewise, we believe that continuing to share ownership is one of the ways we maintain employee trust and an unparalleled commitment to succeed. Combined, these timeless principles form the basis of the Torch culture. A culture that we are committed to continue and strive to pass on to the next generation of employee-owners as an Evergreen Company.
Sincerely,
John S. Watson
Chief Executive Officer
Torch Technologies, Inc.

--- Page: https://torchtechnologies.com/employees/retirement-benefits/ ---



--- Page: https://www.freedomrealestate.biz/ ---

FIND YOUR FREEDOM IN REAL ESTATE​
PROPERTIES
Development Services
Development Services
Brokerage Representation
Brokerage Representation
Property Management
Property Management
Advisory Services
Advisory Services
FIND YOUR FREEDOM IN REAL ESTATE​
Properties
Find Your Property
Properties
FIND YOUR FREEDOM IN REAL ESTATE
Properties
Find Your Property
PropertyType
PropertyType
Market
Market
sale
All Sale/Lease
SEARCH
All Properties
For Lease
Manufacturing
Office
Retail
Warehouse
Search
Popular Keywords
Properties
No Record Found
View All Results
Our Affiliations
Our Mission,
Your Freedom
Freedom Real Estate and Capital, LLC (Freedom) is committed to the development of quality space solutions through ethical business dealings and attention to detail while building lasting relationships.
We provide you the freedom to succeed by developing and managing properties that showcase your business. Our goal is to provide the ideal property for your company to thrive. We’re proud to support growing businesses and help established companies find new space.
Our comprehensive commercial real estate services include brokerage, property management, development, advisory services, and construction. Let us show you how we can help your business succeed.
LEARN MORE
Enabling Your Success
At
Freedom
, our top priority is the success of our clients. We strive to be your trusted advisor, guiding you through every stage of your commercial real estate journey. Whether you’re buying or leasing an existing property, constructing a new facility, or renovating a space, our experts are here to help.
$
0
M
Commercial Real Estate Ownership Portfolio
$
0
M+
in Managed Projects
0
Properties Owned & Managed
0
Years in Business
0
+
Years of Combined Experience in Commercial Real Estate, Construction and Advisory Services

--- Page: https://torchtechnologies.com/contracts/ ---

A Trusted Partner
Torch holds numerous contracts through which we deliver research and development services. We are honored to have been entrusted with over $5 billion in contract ceiling. Some of our larger Indefinite Delivery Indefinite Quantity (IDIQ) and core research and development contracts are highlighted here. Most of these are open to other government agencies for purchase.
Consortium Membership
CONSORTIUM MEMBERSHIP
As a nontraditional defense contractor and member of several consortia, Torch delivers high technology solutions as a prime contractor to the Department of Defense and other Government Agencies through…
D3I Domain 2
D3I DOMAIN 2
Torch Technologies is pleased to announce it was awarded the $504M U.S. Army Space and Missile Defense Command (SMDC)/Army Strategic Command (ARSTRAT) "Design, Development, Demonstration, and Integration"…
EXPRESS
EXPRESS
The Torch Team provides high-quality, relevant, and responsive research and development advisory and assistance services to the United States Army under our Technical Domain prime Blanket Purchase Agreement…
GSA OASIS
GSA OASIS
OASIS and OASIS Small Business (SB) are multiple award, Indefinite Delivery Indefinite Quantity (IDIQ) contracts that provide flexible and innovative solutions for complex professional services. These…
GSA ASTRO
GSA ASTRO
ASTRO is a broadly scoped series of contract vehicles encompassing virtually all services supporting or involving manned, unmanned, or optionally manned platforms and robotics.
ASTRO is administered by…
GSA Schedules
GSA SCHEDULES
General Services Administration (GSA) schedules are competitively awarded contracts available for use by U.S. government agencies and their approved contractors to obtain products and services in a streamlined…
MDA TEAMS
MDA TEAMS
Under the Technical, Engineering, Advisory, and Management Support (TEAMS) and TEAMS Next family of contracts Torch provides broad research, development, engineering, and technical support as a prime and…
RS3
RS3
RESPONSIVE STRATEGIC SOURCING FOR SERVICES (RS3) IDIQ
The $37.4 billion, 5 year base (plus 5 option years), multiple award IDIQ RS3 contract vehicle is a Multiple Award Indefinite Delivery, Indefinite…

--- Page: https://torchtechnologies.com/contracts/gsa-oasis/ ---

GSA OASIS
OASIS and OASIS Small Business (SB) are multiple award, Indefinite Delivery Indefinite Quantity (IDIQ) contracts that provide flexible and innovative solutions for complex professional services. These contracts feature:
Broad Access to Technical Expertise
The contracts span many areas of expertise, mission spaces, and professional service disciplines. The core disciplines of the contract include program management services, management consulting services, logistics services, engineering services, scientific services, and financial services.
Maximum Flexibility to Meet Customer Needs
The blanket contracts allow flexibility for all contract types including hybrids and cost-reimbursement at the task order level.  The contracts also allow ancillary support components, commonly referred to as Other Direct Costs (ODC), at the task order level.
Torch holds awards for the following pools:
SB 5a, 5b, 6
UNR 1, 3, 4, 5a, 5b, 6
Information on OASIS is avaliable at:
Buyers Guidance and Resources | GSA
GULF RANGE DRONE CONTROL SYSTEM
GULF RANGE DRONE CONTROL SYSTEM
Torch provides mathematical, engineering, and software development services for the Air Force GRDCS, which is used to track and control full-scale and sub-scale aerial targets.
TECHNICAL AND MANAGEMENT ADVISORY SERVICES (TMAS) - ARMAMENT
TECHNICAL AND MANAGEMENT ADVISORY SERVICES (TMAS) - ARMAMENT
Torch provides non-personal advisory and assistance services to fully support aerospace research, development, test, and evaluation activities for the Air Force Test Center.
SPACE AND MISSILE DEFENSE COMMAND - DECISION SUPPORT
SPACE AND MISSILE DEFENSE COMMAND - DECISION SUPPORT
Torch supports the USASMDC ARSTRAT Future Warfare Center in the key areas of Integrated Air and Missile Defense, Space, Space Superiority, High Altitude and Cyberspace.

--- Page: https://www.linkedin.com/company/torch-technologies-inc./ ---

Torch Technologies, Inc.
Defense and Space Manufacturing
Huntsville, Alabama
18,955 followers
Lighting the pathway of freedom.
See jobs
Follow
Discover all 1,259 employees
Report this company
Overview
Jobs
Life
About us
Founded in October 2002, Torch is a 100% employee-owned business headquartered in Huntsville, Alabama. 

Our commitment to our employee-owners results in a retention rate well over 90% and helps ensure our customers experience a stable work force.

Torch has received national and local recognition for our business performance, workplace environment, and ethical business practices. In 2021, Torch ranked on the Inc. 5000 list for the fifteenth consecutive year. Torch was also named one of the Best Workplaces in Consulting & Professional Services for the sixth consecutive year by Great Place to Work, and Great Place to Work and Fortune named Torch one of the country’s Best Workplaces for Millennials for the third time. Torch was also recognized as the ESOP Company of the Year by the New South Chapter of The ESOP Association for a second time. Torch was a recipient of the James S. Cogswell Outstanding Industrial Security Achievement Award by the DCSA. Washington Technology listed Torch in its “Top 100” Government Contractors ranking for the seventh consecutive year, and Bloomberg Government listed Torch in its annual “Top 200” ranking for the fifth consecutive year. Torch was also selected for a Colorado Springs Business Journal “Best in Business” award for the second consecutive year.  In 2020, Torch became the only four-time recipient of the Better Business Bureau’s Torch Award for Business Ethics in North Alabama. Great Place to Work named Torch one of the country’s Best Workplaces for Parents, and Torch was selected for a Colorado Springs Business Journal “Best in Business” award. In 2019, Torch was ranked on the Entrepreneur 360 list for the third consecutive year. In 2018, Great Place to Work and Fortune magazine named Torch a Best Medium Workplace for the third consecutive year. Torch was also named a winner of the 2018 Best Places to Work in Huntsville award for the fifth time. For more information, visit www.TorchTechnologies.com
Website
http://www.torchtechnologies.com
External link for Torch Technologies, Inc.
Industry
Defense and Space Manufacturing
Company size
501-1,000 employees
Headquarters
Huntsville, Alabama
Type
Privately Held
Founded
2002
Specialties
Modeling and Simulation, Software Engineering, Unmanned Aircraft Systems, System Engineering and Integration, Test and Evaluation, Information Technologies, Prototyping, and Program Support
Locations
Primary
4090 South Memorial Parkway
Huntsville, Alabama 35802, US
Get directions
COPT NorthGate 210 Research Blvd
Ste 260-C,J
Aberdeen, MD 21001, US
Get directions
2201 Buena Vista SE
Suite 424
Abuquerque, NM 87106, US
Get directions
6760 Corporate Drive
Suite 110
Colorado Springs, CO 80919, US
Get directions
1 11th Avenue
Bldg. E, Suite 2
Shalimar, FL 32579, US
Get directions
44425 Pecan Ct
California, Maryland 20619, US
Get directions
Show more locations
Show fewer locations
Employees at Torch Technologies, Inc.
Randall Rockafellow
Digital Artist, 3D Pipeline dev
Monique Walkes
Tim Griffin
Owner, TMG Development
John Colby
See all employees
Updates
Torch Technologies, Inc.
18,955 followers
1d
Report this post
Our Detroit employee-owners enjoyed an educational lunch and lean about the History of GVSC (Ground Vehicle Systems Center) presented by Oleg Sapunkov. Thanks to Torch’s Society of Emerging Professionals (STEPs) for planning this event!
#EmployeeOwners
#STEPs
#TorchDetroit
18
Like
Comment
Share
Torch Technologies, Inc.
18,955 followers
2d
Report this post
Our employee-owners and summer interns had a blast at the annual Trash Pandas game, thanks to the incredible planning by Torch’s Society of Emerging Professionals (STEPs)! A great evening of team spirit, community, and baseball fun.⚾
#EmployeeOwners
#STEPs
#TrashPandas
+2
34
Like
Comment
Share
Torch Technologies, Inc.
18,955 followers
2d
Report this post
We are honored to support this project!
U.S. Army DEVCOM Ground Vehicle Systems Center
11,026 followers
1w
While on a visit at GVSC, AFC Deputy CG Lt. Gen. Miles Brown tries out our eXtended Reality Immersive Design Exploration (xRIDE). This capability allows the user to visualize and interact with proposed government and vendor crew station designs for new and existing military ground vehicles before expensive prototypes are created.
Army Futures Command
/
14
Like
Comment
Share
Torch Technologies, Inc.
18,955 followers
6d
Report this post
Freedom's Bill Roark was the featured speaker at today's Leadership Development Workshop for staff at the Huntsville Botanical Gardens. Bill shared about his leadership experience and some practical advice for how to be a good leader.
#Leadership
#HsvGarden
#BotanicalGardens
27
1 Comment
Like
Comment
Share
Torch Technologies, Inc.
18,955 followers
6d
Report this post
✨NEW JOB OPPORTUNITY✨ Join our Torch team in Huntsville! We're seeking a Computational Fluid Dynamics Engineer with expertise in Computational Fluid Dynamics (CFD) applications and aerodynamic analysis. Your mission will be to conduct aerodynamic studies of U.S. Army flight systems using CFD. Learn more about this role and apply here:
https://lnkd.in/gAsE2ekt
#JobOpportunities
#EmployeeOwnership
#WorkWithUs
13
1 Comment
Like
Comment
Share
Torch Technologies, Inc.
18,955 followers
1w
Report this post
Torch was pleased to support the Army Aviation Association of America (AAAA)Tennessee Valley Chapter Annual Golf tournament. Congratulations to the Torch team for taking home second place!👏
22
Like
Comment
Share
Torch Technologies, Inc.
18,955 followers
1w
Report this post
While at the Tugboat Institute last week, Torch Co-founder Bill Roark and President Brad Walker caught up with Bo Burlingham (center). Bo is Editor-at-large of Inc. Magazine and is renowned for his expertise in small business and entrepreneurship.
#EmployeeOwnership
#TugboatInstitute
#CertifiedEvergreen
16
Like
Comment
Share
Torch Technologies, Inc.
18,955 followers
1w
Report this post
Torch Employee Owners recently took part in the United Cerebral Palsy (UCP) Emerald Evening. This annual event celebrates community, inclusion, and empowerment, bringing together supporters to raise critical funds for children and adults with disabilities.  We are pleased to support UCP and this great event!
#UCPHuntsville
#EmeraldEvening
16
Like
Comment
Share
Torch Technologies, Inc.
18,955 followers
1w
Report this post
🎙️New Episode!🎙️ What is a Public Benefit Corporation with Clay Hagan
Clay Hagan returns to the podcast to share how Torch Technologies became a Public Benefit Corporation (PBC) in early 2024—a rare and intentional move that strengthens the company’s long-term mission. In this episode, we discuss what it means to be a PBC, why Torch pursued this path, and how it ties into its identity as a 100% employee-owned ESOP.
Listen here:
https://ow.ly/BnTf50Wg82l
Watch here:
https://lnkd.in/gVYNGyqm
#KeepingTheDreamAlive
#EmployeeOwnership
…more
5
1 Comment
Like
Comment
Share
Torch Technologies, Inc.
18,955 followers
1w
Report this post
Torch Co-founder Bill Roark and President Brad Walker attended the Tugboat Institute Annual Evergreen event last week.  Tugboat Institute® supports Evergreen® leaders in building Purpose-driven companies that stay Private, Profitable, and enduring for generations to come. As a Certified Evergreen™ company, Torch has committed to finding ways to make 100 percent employee ownership sustainable so that Torch will remain a private company.
#EmployeeOwnership
#TugboatInstitute
#CertifiedEvergreen
58
Like
Comment
Share
Join now to see what you are missing
Find people you know at Torch Technologies, Inc.
Browse recommended jobs for you
View all updates, news, and articles
Join now
Similar pages
PeopleTec, Inc.
Defense and Space Manufacturing
Huntsville, AL
Radiance Technologies
Defense and Space Manufacturing
Huntsville, Alabama
Integration Innovation, Inc.
Defense and Space Manufacturing
Huntsville, Alabama
IronMountain Solutions
Defense and Space Manufacturing
Huntsville, Alabama
Modern Technology Solutions, Inc. (MTSI)
Space Research and Technology
Alexandria, VA
Axient
Defense and Space Manufacturing
Huntsville, Alabama
SAIC
Defense and Space Manufacturing
Reston, VA
Northrop Grumman
Defense and Space Manufacturing
Falls Church, VA
COLSA
Defense and Space Manufacturing
Huntsville, Alabama
Leidos
Defense and Space Manufacturing
Reston, Virginia
Show more similar pages
Show fewer similar pages
Browse jobs
Engineer jobs
555,845 open jobs
Analyst jobs
694,057 open jobs
Project Manager jobs
253,048 open jobs
Manager jobs
1,880,925 open jobs
Recruiter jobs
243,016 open jobs
Executive Administrative Assistant jobs
38,247 open jobs
Data Analyst jobs
329,009 open jobs
Executive jobs
690,514 open jobs
Developer jobs
258,935 open jobs
Scientist jobs
48,969 open jobs
Data Engineer jobs
192,126 open jobs
Software Engineer jobs
300,699 open jobs
Mechanical Engineer jobs
46,392 open jobs
Machine Learning Engineer jobs
148,937 open jobs
Specialist jobs
768,666 open jobs
Junior Web Developer jobs
8,869 open jobs
Aerospace Engineer jobs
29,888 open jobs
Technical Recruiter jobs
8,617 open jobs
Dotnet Developer jobs
28,038 open jobs
Salesperson jobs
172,678 open jobs
Show more jobs like this
Show fewer jobs like this
Funding
Torch Technologies, Inc.
2 total rounds
Last Round
Seed
Mar 9, 2012
External Crunchbase Link for last round of funding
US$ 3.0M
See more info on
crunchbase

--- Page: https://torchtechnologies.com/company/company-profile/corporate-giving/ ---

Paying it Forward
As Torch continues to grow, so does our corporate charitable giving. We structured our corporate giving into two levels: the Corporate Charitable Giving Committee, and large corporate commitments. Our Corporate Charitable Giving Committee, a voluntary committee of employee-owners, meets quarterly to review all applicable charitable requests and provide recommendations. Our Corporate Charitable Giving Committee receives and recommends charitable requests for those organizations that do not meet the requirements for a Torch Helps grant. Torch has supported organizations including Still Serving Veterans, Junior Achievement, the Huntsville Art League, the Huntsville/Madison County Veterans Park, Early Works Family Museum, Cooks Natural History Museum, Christmas Charities Year-Round, the National Association of Black Engineers, and many, many more.
Torch regularly commits to large corporate donations in support of our local communities, in addition to the funds granted by the Corporate Charitable Giving Committee. These commitments are made as long-term investments in our communities. Some of the recent large corporate commitments include: a local library campaign, the Huntsville Madison County Veterans Memorial, the Madison County Military Heritage Commission,Early Works Children's Museum, the Community Foundation of Greater Huntsville's Summer Adventures in Learning program, and the Community Foundation of Greater Huntsville's CAP & GOWN Project.
Torch also encourages community involvement through our sponsorship and participation in events including local Heart Walks for the American Heart Association, runs for breast cancer, the ALS Walk, academic competitions, robotics teams, and more.
CORPORATE GIVING
More About Giving
Torch regularly commits to large corporate donations in support of our local communities, in addition to the funds granted by the Corporate Charitable Giving Committee. These commitments are made as long-term investments in our communities. Some of the recent large corporate commitments include: a local library campaign, the Huntsville Madison County Veterans Memorial, the Madison County Military Heritage Commission,Early Works Children’s Museum, the Community Foundation of Greater Huntsville’s Summer Adventures in Learning program, and the Community Foundation of Greater Huntsville’s CAP & GOWN Project.
Torch also encourages community involvement through our sponsorship and participation in events including local Heart Walks for the American Heart Association, runs for breast cancer, the ALS Walk, academic competitions, robotics teams, and more.
Further, we coordinate annual golf tournaments that benefit local charities in several of our locations. These fun events for our employee-owners, customers, and friends are not only great employee morale events, but also a fun way to give back to our community. In 2022, our event included 200 golfers from multiple companies and organizations.Through the combined generosity of our incredible sponsors, golfers, volunteers, Torch’s employee-owners and Board of Directors, as well as the employee-owners and Board of Directors of our sister and parent companies Freedom Real Estate and Starfish Holdings, we were able to present the Village of Promise with a $105,000 donation!
THE COMMUNITY FOUNDATION
Community Catalyst Fund
Torch Technologies committed to the Community Foundation of Greater Huntsville to provide the inaugural leadership gift and be the “Torchbearer” founding contributor to the CF’s Catalyst Fund. The Community Catalyst Fund (CCF) is an investment in the quality of life in Huntsville/Madison County. More about the fund is included below. Torch’s commitment of $150,000 helped the CF provide matching funds and momentum in raising the $1M required to endow the fund, which will allow a continuing positive impact on our community in perpetuity.
Based on the outcome of the "Community Vital Signs" project of the Community Foundation of Greater Huntsville, strategic, visionary projects which will have a significant and sustainable impact on quality of life in the Community will be identified and prioritized. The Board of the Community Foundation of Greater Huntsville will select project(s) to be undertaken each year, and the selected project(s) will be led by the Community Foundation of Greater Huntsville. Seed funding from the CCF will be leveraged with other public and/or private funding sources to meet project funding requirements. A project team will be assembled from nonprofit agencies and possibly local government agencies to collaboratively execute the project. The goal is to 'move the needle' on measurable community health indicators as determined by the Vital Signs project.

--- Page: https://torchtechnologies.com/company/locations/ ---

Worldwide Engineering Services & Solutions
Torch delivers critical, responsive engineering services and solutions to customers across the globe. Torch's headquarters is located in Huntsville, Alabama at our Freedom Center campus which features research facilities and a 12,000 square foot conference center. Torch has over 85,000 square feet of design, development and integration space within Torch's Technology Integration &
Prototyping
Campus.  We operate eight regional technical offices and provide on-site field support at customer locations worldwide.
Torch Offices
HEADQUARTERS (BLDG 1 & 2)
4090 Memorial Parkway SW
Huntsville, Alabama 35802
256-319-6000
Get Directions
NICHOLS DRIVE (BLDG 3)
2001 Nichols Drive
Huntsville, Alabama 35802
256-319-6000
Get Directions
OFFICE PARK SOUTH (BLDG 4)
600 Boulevard South
Huntsville, Alabama 35802
256-319-6000
Get Directions
TIPC (BLDG 5)
4050 Chris Drive
Huntsville, Alabama 35802
256-319-6000
Get Directions
TIPC (BLDG 6)
4040 Chris Drive
Huntsville, AL 35802
256-319-6000
Get Directions
ABERDEEN (TECH OFFICE)
400 Hickory Drive
Suite 304
Aberdeen, Maryland 21001
443-360-5007
Get Directions
BOSTON (TECH OFFICE)
303 Wyman Street
Suite 300, Office 369
Waltham, Massachusetts 02451
256-319-6000
Get Directions
COLORADO SPRINGS
(TECH OFFICE)
6760 Corporate Drive
Suite 110
Colorado Springs, Colorado 80919
719-284-6470
Get Directions
DAYTON (TECH OFFICE)
2900 Presidential Drive
Suite 145
Fairborn, OH 45324
256-319-6000
Get Directions
DETROIT (TECH OFFICE)
Defense Corridor Center for
Collaboration & Synergy (DC3S)
33844 Sterling Ponds Blvd.
Sterling Heights, Michigan 48312
586-303-4014
Get Directions
LAWTON (TECH OFFICE)
200 SW C Ave Suite 1-E (FISTA)
ATTN: Torch Technologies
Lawton, OK 73501
580-360-5001
Get Directions
MONTGOMERY
(TECH OFFICE)
4001 Carmichael Road
Suite 530
Montgomery, AL 36106
256-319-6000
Get Directions
SAN ANTONIO (TECH OFFICE)
8940 Fourwinds Dr.
Suite 310
Windcrest, TX 78239
256-319-6000
Get Directions
PATUXENT RIVER (TECH OFFICE)
44425 Pecan Court
Suite 210
California, Maryland 20619
256-319-6000
Get Directions
SHALIMAR (TECH OFFICE)
6 11th Avenue
Bldg F, Suite 1
Shalimar, Florida 32579
850-398-4616
Get Directions
Work Site Locations
Dothan, AL
Montgomery, AL
Washington, D.C.
Panama City, FL
Tampa, FL
Kekaha, HI
Honolulu, HI
Bedford, MA
Albuquerque, NM
McAlister, OK
Anderson, SC
Corpus Christi, TX
El Paso, TX
Arlington, VA
Langley, VA
Cairo, Egypt
Kwajalein, Marshall Islands

--- Page: https://3yiuausy.modx.dev/solutions/engineering/tipc/ ---



--- Page: https://torchtechnologies.com/careers/ ---

TORCH TECHNOLOGIES
+
A GREAT PLACE TO WORK
7 CONSECUTIVE years as a TOP 100 Federal contractor ranking, 15 consecutive listings on INC. 5000 FASTEST GROWING companies, 228 local non-profits supported with over $3.5 MILLION in employee and corporate giving, and 6 CONSECUTIVE years listed as one of the Nation's best workplaces.
Experience
OUR Difference
Torch Technologies is a rapidly growing, technology-focused services and solutions company. We believe that the innovation, dedication, and service-mindset of our employee-ownership is the cornerstone to our success, and we are always seeking opportunities to expand our team. Take a moment to explore our offerings and find your pathway to success!
THE TORCH DIFFERENCE
Why Torch
Our Benefits
100% Employee Owned
FIND YOUR PATHWAY
EXPLORE OUR OPPORTUNITIES
TRANSITIONING MILITARY
INTERNS
BEST PLACE TO WORK
Best Place to Work for Millennials
Awarded Great Place to Work
Best in Business
One of Country's 2022 Best Workplaces for Millennials Ranked #78. Employees rated more than 60 elements of their experiences on the job. Awarded this in 2022, 2021, 2020, and 2018.
GPTW analyzed the survey responses of over 151,00 employees from Great Place to Work-Certified Companies in the technology industry. To be considered for the list companies must be Great Place to Work-Certified and be in the technology industry Thanks to our employee owners confidential quantitative and qualitative feedback Torch ranked 21/25
Colorado Springs Business Journal readers named Torch the best engineering firm in Colorado Springs. This is the third time Torch has been named as one of the Best in Business. This is the first time that Torch won First Place.
JOIN OUR TEAM
Apply Now
Torch maintains an excellent work environment that includes competitive compensation, outstanding benefits, and rewarding work assignments with major opportunities for advancement. This could be your opportunity to join a growing, fast-paced company that is setting standards for superior technical services. To be considered for employment opportunities, you must complete an online application.
JOIN OUR TEAM
Torch Technologies is an Equal Opportunity/Affirmative Action Employer. Employment decisions are made without regard to race, color, religion, national origin, gender, sexual orientation, gender identity, age, physical or mental disability, genetic factors, military/veteran status, or other characteristics protected by law.
Torch seeks to provide a fully accessible career site. If you need assistance or an accommodation to participate in our application process, please
contact us
.
E-Verify
EEO is Law
Right to Work
Torch EEO Statement

--- Page: https://torchtechnologies.com/podcasts/ ---

Keeping the Dream Alive
Podcasts
Episode 42: ESOP Culture with Bill Roark
May 30, 2025
In this episode of Keeping The Dream Alive, we sit down with Bill Roark, co-founder of Torch Technologies, for a deep dive into the company's unique ESOP (Employee Stock Ownership Plan) culture. Bill shares how employee ownership isn't just a structure—it's a mindset that transforms how people show up to work, collaborate across departments, and invest in each other's success.

We explore the responsibilities and rewards of being an employee-owner, how Torch fosters a family-like atmosphere, and the importance of community engagement through events like the Children’s Christmas Party, tailgates, and Torch Helps initiatives. Bill also reflects on the company’s growth, the challenge of maintaining culture at scale, and why long-term strategic planning and community impact remain central
to Torch’s mission.
Episode 41: Food Bank of North Alabama & Family Services Center
May 14, 2025
In this episode, we sit down with two leaders making a powerful impact in the Huntsville community—Darren Geiger, President & CEO of Family Services Center, and Shirley Schofield, CEO of the Food Bank of North Alabama.

They share how their organizations are addressing core issues like food insecurity, homelessness, mental health, and family support through a wide range of services—from workforce development and grief counseling to food distribution and school partnerships. With Huntsville’s rapid growth, both organizations are navigating increased demand while emphasizing the importance of collaboration, data-driven impact, and diversified funding strategies.

We explore the realities their clients face, how their missions have evolved, and what their biggest needs are heading into 2025. Whether it’s providing shelter, serving 80,000+ people each month with food, or connecting families with vital resources, Darren and Shirley are on the front lines of building a stronger, more supportive community.

If you’re looking for ways to give back, get involved, or better understand the human needs in our region—this is a conversation you won’t want to miss.
Episode 40: What is an ESOP with Clay Hagan
April 30, 2025
In this episode of Keeping The Dream Alive, we're excited to welcome back Clay Hagan for an in-depth conversation about one of the foundational elements of Torch Technologies: the ESOP (Employee Stock Ownership Plan). Clay breaks down what an ESOP is, why it’s such a crucial part of Torch’s culture, and how employee ownership impacts career growth, company loyalty, and long-term value. We dive into the history of Torch’s ESOP journey—from its early days as a small spinout to becoming a 100% employee-owned company—and explore how Torch has built systems to ensure sustainability for both current and future employees.
Episode 39: Huntsville Hospital & SIMVANA Partnership
April 18, 2025
In this episode of Keeping The Dream Alive, we dive into the cutting-edge partnership between SIMVANA and Huntsville Hospital, exploring how virtual reality training is transforming the way nurses are onboarded and trained. Our guests, Alexis Spalding, Director of Clinical Nursing Practice at Huntsville Hospital, and Nathan Faught, Program Manager at SIMVANA, share how this collaboration is addressing key challenges in medical education—providing hands-on, immersive training without patient risk.

From VR-simulated medical equipment to AI-powered patient interactions, Sivan is revolutionizing nurse training, ensuring that both new and experienced professionals are prepared for real-world scenarios. We also discuss the future of VR in healthcare, its scalability across hospitals nationwide, and how AI-driven learning is shaping the next generation of medical professionals.

Tune in to learn how this game-changing technology is improving nurse education, patient care, and hospital efficiency.
Episode 38: Free 2 Teach & The Downtown Rescue Mission
April 09, 2025
In this episode, I sit down with Keith Overholt from the Downtown Rescue Mission and Alison Kling from Free 2 Teach—two nonprofit leaders making a powerful impact in Huntsville. Keith shares how the mission is expanding its efforts to support a growing population of young people experiencing homelessness, while Alison dives into how Free 2 Teach equips teachers across public schools with the supplies they need to empower students. We explore the unique challenges both organizations face, the innovative ways they stretch every dollar, and how the community can get involved.
Episode 37: Alzheimer’s Association & The Heart Association
March 19, 2025
In this episode, we sit down with Abigail Mercer of the Alzheimer’s Association and Stephanie Cline of the Heart Association to discuss two major health challenges affecting our communities. Abigail sheds light on the widespread impact of Alzheimer’s, dispelling misconceptions and highlighting the staggering number of those affected, including young individuals. Stephanie emphasizes the importance of knowing your number —blood pressure, cholesterol, and blood sugar—to prevent heart disease and stroke. Tune in for an insightful conversation on awareness, prevention, and the steps we can all take toward better health.
Episode 36: Veterans Program with Christopher Finley & Stephan Stidfole
March 07, 2025
In this episode, we sit down with Stephen Stidfole and Chris Finley of Torch Technologies to discuss how their Veterans Program is creating meaningful career transitions for service members through initiatives like DoD SkillBridge and Hiring Our Heroes. They share how Torch fosters a strong sense of community, provides mentorship, and supports veterans beyond hiring, making a lasting impact in Huntsville and beyond.
Episode 35: Torch's New Core Values with Charlie Crowe
February 19, 2025
In this episode, we sit down with Charlie Crowe to discuss the process of defining and formalizing the core values at Torch— values that had long been ingrained in the company’s culture. Charlie shares how leadership recognized these principles
through years of experience and simply put them into words. We also explore the mindset of ownership at Torch, where every team member takes responsibility beyond their job description to ensure success. From stepping up in the workplace to giving back to the community, Charlie emphasizes the impact of a shared commitment to excellence and service.
Episode 34: Breakthrough T1D & New Hope Children's Clinic
January 29, 2025
In this episode of the Keeping the Dream Alive podcast, we talk with Cindy Williamson, Executive Director of New Hope Children's Clinic, and Jennifer Bentley, State Director for Breakthrough T1D. They discussed the missions of their organizations: providing accessible healthcare for children in New Hope and advancing support and research for individuals affected by Type 1 diabetes across Alabama. They shared insights into the challenges of funding, and both leaders highlighted the critical role of volunteers and partnerships in achieving their goals, inviting listeners to get involved.
Episode 33: 2024 Torch Recap with President Brad Walker
January 17, 2025
In this episode of Keeping the Dream Alive, Brad Walker, President of Torch Technologies, reflects on 2024 and shares the company’s plans for 2025. He discusses Torch’s focus on growth through strategic planning, leadership development, and customer satisfaction, guided by its six focus areas. 
Brad also highlights upcoming initiatives like new enterprise systems, CMMC Level 2 certification, and enhanced internal communications. Tune in for insights into how Torch thrives as an employee-owned, mission-driven organization.
Episode 32: The Future of Freedom Real Estate with Brenda Conville & Lee Holland
October 16, 2024
In this episode, we sit down with Lee Holland and Brenda Conville to discuss Freedom Real Estate's evolution from a property management and leasing subsidiary of Torch Technologies to a full-service real estate firm. Now offering brokerage, construction, and development services, Freedom Real Estate has expanded its operations with a focus on sales and leasing. Lee and Brenda highlight two major projects: an industrial park near Toyota Motor Manufacturing, offering flexible building sizes for various industries, and a class A office building at Hayes Farm—the first of its kind in South Huntsville in 20 years, part of a master-planned community. They also share plans for further growth, including potential projects in downtown Huntsville and beyond Alabama.
Episode 31:  Freedom Real Estate Anniversary with Bill Roark
September 12, 2024
In this episode we sit down with Bill Roark, CEO of Freedom Real Estate, to discuss the company's origins and its impact on Huntsville's growth. Initially created to generate better returns than the company's cash reserves, Freedom Real Estate faced initial resistance from the board. However, after an article in the Wall Street Journal validated the concept, the board approved the formation of the company. Since then, Freedom Real Estate has expanded from managing its own buildings to taking on construction projects and offering advisory services. Bill shares how the company has played a key role in revitalizing South Huntsville and outlines plans for further expansion and partnerships in the future.
Episode 30: Corporate Philanthropy
August 28, 2024
In this episode, Clark interviews Torch's Clay Hagan about corporate philanthropy. They discuss
the company's growth over the years and its transformation into
a benefit corporation. They also explore the origins of Torch
Helps, the company's philanthropic arm, and how it has evolved
over time. The conversation touches on various examples of Torch's
philanthropic efforts, including supporting local charities,
volunteering, and creative grant requests. They also discuss the
future of corporate philanthropy at Torch and the role it plays in
maintaining the company's culture.
Episode 29: Technology Innovation and Prototyping Center (TIPC)
August 07, 2024
Corey Chandler discusses the Technology Integration and
Prototyping Center (TIPC) at Torch. TIPC is a unique capability
that supports rapid prototyping and solutions development for
the government. It was opened in 2019 and provides dedicated
lab space for various disciplines, including mechanical
engineering, electrical engineering, optics, and fabrication. TIPC provides substantial value to customers by expanding their
requirements and offering progressive engagement. The future
of TIPC involves developing more complex systems and
becoming a one-stop shop for customers.
Episode 28: Adoption Assistance Program with Cathy McDonald & John Watson
June 18, 2024
In this podcast episode, Cathy McDonald and John Watson discuss Torch Technologies' Adoption Assistance Program, introduced during its shift to a public benefit corporation. They outline the program's straightforward structure and substantial reimbursement policies, noting its favorable reception from the board and employees alike. The discussion highlights Torch's dedication to employee support, leadership development, and community innovation. Their conversation aims to distinguish Torch from other companies and encourage positive workplace practices.
Episode 27: Built with Purpose with Bill Roark
June 05, 2024
Bill Roark, co-founder of Torch Technologies, delves into his recent book, Built with Purpose. This work chronicles the formative years and history of Torch Technologies, a company with a two-decade legacy. Roark shares insights into the book's creation, detailing his collaboration with a ghostwriter and the extensive interviews conducted with current and former employees. Rather than serving as a how-to guide, the book is a compilation of pivotal stories and events that have shaped the company. Roark underscores the significance of employee ownership and highlights the company's commitment to its employees and community.
Episode 26: SIMVANA with Darryl Trousdale
May 15, 2024
Darryl Trousdale, project manager of the Advanced VIZLAB at Torch, discusses the evolution and impact of SIMVANA. Originally developed for virtual training in the defense sector, SIMVANA has broadened its applications to fields like anesthesiology and nursing onboarding. It provides a global training platform with virtual lessons and simulations, which are regularly updated. The podcast emphasizes the importance of sustaining and passing on the vision to future generations.
Episode 25: The IRAD Program with Bruce Peters
May 01, 2024
In this episode, we interview Bruce Peters to talk about the company's Internal Research and Development (IRAD) program. Bruce shares his background and how he got involved in the program. He discusses the importance of linking innovative ideas with customer needs and the role of different disciplines in project management. Bruce highlights the advantages of Torch's ESOP structure and how it allows for long-term investments in solving difficult problems. The episode concludes with a discussion of the relationship between the IRAD program and the summer intern program at Torch, emphasizing the importance of application and learning in internships.
Episode 24: New Starfish CEO with Bill Roark
April 10, 2024
In this episode, we sit down to talk with Bill Roark about his transition as Starfish Holdings CEO. We also discuss the role he will now play as Chairman of the Board, his upcoming book release in May, and future travel plans across the country.
Episode 23:  Co-Founder of Torch Technologies with Don Holder
January 23, 2024
In episode 23, we talk with Don Holder Co-Founder of Torch. We discuss his educational background, the discussion with Bill Roark back in 2002 to join Torch, what it’s like now to see Torch continue to grow 20+ years later, and what advice he would give to new and current employee-owners of Torch Technologies.
Episode 22: Employee Spotlight with Mike O'Melia
January 04, 2024
To kick off the new year, we talked with Mike O'Melia, who has been at Torch Technologies for 19 years and is coming up on 20. We discussed his knowledge of ESOPs before joining Torch, the importance of the term employee-owner, and his challenge to the younger employees just beginning their careers at Torch.
Episode 21: Public Benefit Corporation with Bill Roark
December 06, 2023
In this episode, we talk with Bill Roark to discuss Torch’s newest distinction of becoming a Public Benefit Corporation. We discuss the differences between a Public Benefit Corp and a B Corp, how this distinction pairs with being an Evergreen Company, and the commitment Torch has to grow and be profitable for more than 100 years.
Episode 20: Freedom Real Estate with Brenda Conville & Lee Holland
October 24, 2023
We had the opportunity to talk with Brenda Conville and Lee Holland of Freedom Real Estate & Capital, a sister company to Torch Technologies. We discuss their backgrounds before joining Freedom, the exponential growth Freedom has had in a few years, the ESOP structure that connects Freedom with Torch, and the future goals they both have for Freedom moving into 2024 and beyond.
Episode 19: CEO of Torch Technologies with John Watson
October 11, 2023
We sat down with John Watson, who has been at Torch Technologies since 2009 and was promoted to CEO in 2018. We discuss his educational background, how he met Bill Roark while at Nichols Research, the initial decision to join Torch, and his future goals for Torch moving into 2024 and beyond.
Episode 18: Torch Helps
September 27, 2023
In this episode, we sit down with the current Board Chair of Torch Helps, Samantha Blumkin and the last two previous Board Chairs, Maureen Eversmeyer and LaJoy Johns. We discuss their backgrounds at Torch, the mission of Torch Helps, and the future impact they hope Torch Helps has in the community.
Episode 17: Internal Stock Exchange with Bill Roark
September 13, 2023
This week, we sit down to talk with Bill Roark Co-Founder of Torch Technologies to discuss the the Internal Stock Exchange. We discuss the employee benefit, the importance of having it, and the impact it will have on employee-owners for years to come.
Episode 16: President of Torch Technologies with Brad Walker
August 31, 2023
This week, we sit down to talk with Brad Walker who has been at Torch Technologies since 2006 and who recently got promoted to President of the company in January 2023. We discuss his educational background, how he met Bill Roark while at Nichols Research, the initial decision to join Torch in 2006, and how his day-to-day life has changed since becoming President.
Episode 15: Employee Spotlight with Jim Moore
July 05, 2023
In this episode, we talk with Jim Moore, who has been at Torch for almost 20 years. He currently works in the Shalimar, Florida office at Eglin Air Force Base. We discussed his knowledge of ESOPs before joining Torch, his decision to move to Shalimar, Florida, and how the company culture ultimately led his wife to join Torch too!
Episode 14:  Employee Spotlight with Samantha Blumkin
June 14, 2023
We had the opportunity to talk with the lead program control analyst Samantha Blumkin. She helps lead all the program control analysts that support our ACE group here at Torch. During this episode, we discuss what it was like joining Torch back in 2013, her decision to leave Torch for a few months back in 2020 and her passion to educate the younger employees about things she wishes she would've known when she first started.
Episode 13: Employee Spotlight with Jim Diehl
May 30, 2023
In this episode, we sit down to talk with Jim Diehl, who recently retired but was the corporate chief of staff working directly for the president and the program manager for the MDA programs here at Torch Technologies. During this episode, we discuss what it was like joining Torch back in 2009 after almost 30 years of working at another company. We also discuss how the culture at Torch differed from his previous work experiences. and the value that the ESOP was to him as an employee, and now as a recent retiree.
Episode 12: Employee Spotlight with Adam Sampley
April 26, 2023
In this episode, we sit down to talk with Adam Sampley who helps lead the aircraft survivability team under the tactical systems business unit here at Torch Technologies. During this episode we discuss what it was like to join Torch 19 years ago directly out of college, the value of the ESOP program to him, what advice he would give to someone first beginning their career here, and what he believes separates Torch from other companies. Click here to listen to his story!
Episode 11: Employee Spotlight with Clayton Newkirk
April 06, 2023
We had the privilege of talking to Clayton Newkirk, Senior Director here at Torch Technologies. During this episode, we discuss what it was like joining Torch 20 years ago, the value of the ESOP program to him, and what advice he would give to someone first beginning their career here. Click here to find out what achievements he would love to see Torch receive in the near future!
Episode 10: Principle of Pragmatic Innovation
April 06, 2023
Bill Roark speaks about the Tugboat Institute and their Principle of Pragmatic Innovation. We discuss the mindset he has had over the last 20 years with calculated risk. What was the biggest calculated risk that Bill Roark ever took? Click here to listen!
Episode 9: Principle of Profit
March 02, 2023
Bill Roark, Co-Founder of Torch Technologies, talks about the Tugboat Institute and their Principle of Profit. We discuss the importance of profit to the survival of Torch specifically in the early years, how Bill was able to balance the desire to increase profits without making it the purpose of Torch, and how the true value of profit is what you deliver to the customer and how Torch has been able to deliver exceptional value over the last 20 years.
Episode 8: Principle of Paced Growth
February 09, 2023
Bill Roark discusses the Tugboat Institute and their Principle of Paced Growth along with long term strategies put in place for Torch back in 2002, how Bill was able to balance short-term performance with Torch's long-term goals, how Torch has been so consistent year-to-year over the last 20 years, and how we hope to continue this momentum moving forward.
Episode 7: What's Ahead for 2023
December 09, 2022
Bill Roark, Co-founder of Torch Technologies, talks about 2022 and some of the goals and milestones that Torch, Freedom Real Estate, and SIMVANA have been able to achieve across this year, as well as some goals we have for the podcast moving forward into 2023.  Be sure to subscribe to the podcast wherever you listen.
Episode 6: 20th Anniversary Special
November 27, 2022
Bill Roark reminisces over the last 20 years.  We discuss the history of Torch, lessons heas learned along the way, and what the future look like for Torch.
Episode 5: Principle of Private
November 20, 2022
Bill Roark discusses the Tugboat Institute and their Principle of Private which they define as taking advantage of the ability of closely-held private companies to have a longer-term view, greater confidentiality around strategies, and more operating...
Episode 4: Employee Owner
October 30, 2022
Bill Roark and Brady Porter discuss the general structuring of the Employee Stock Ownership Program (ESOP), the impact that ESOP has had on Brady's life over his 18 years of service at Torch, and how the overall atmosphere of Torch has been impacted based on the employee ownership model.
Episode 3: Principle of People First
September 28, 2022
In this episode of The Keeping the Dream Alive Podcast Bill Roark continues the conversations about The Tugboat Institute and their Third P of People First.
Episode 2: Principle of Perseverance
September 14, 2022
Bill Roark continues our conversation and we discuss The Tugboat Institute's second P for Principle of Perseverance.
Episode 1: Introduction to Evergreen
July 23, 2022
In this episode, we sit down with Bill Roark Co-founder of Torch Technologies to learn more about their history and one of their newest accomplishments of being recognized as a Certified Evergreen Company. We discuss what it means to be an evergreen company, the principle of purpose within the Tugboat Group, and how it applies to Torch. The Tugboat Group defines purpose as having a compelling reason for existing--a North Star above all else. You can learn more about the Tugboat Group by visiting their website. https://www.tugboatinstitute.com/

--- Page: https://torchtechnologies.com/employees/password-management/ ---

Enroll
You must enroll into this system before you can use it to reset your password or unlock your account.
For Reset and Unlock
Reset
You will need to reset your password if you have forgotten it. You must be enrolled to use this option.
A forgotten password
Unlock
You will need to unlock your account if you entered the wrong password too many times. You must be enrolled to use this option.
Your account
Change
You can change your password if you know your current password. You do not have to be enrolled to use this option.
Your password

--- Page: https://torchtechnologies.com/company/leadership/ ---

Corporate Governance
John Watson
CEO and Board Member of Torch Technologies, Inc. / President of Starfish Holdings, Inc.
John Watson served as the President of Torch Technologies, Inc. (Torch) since 2013, and was appointed to President and CEO in 2018. Watson was also appointed to the Board of Directors of Torch in 2014. Prior to being Torch President, Watson served as Torch’s Vice President of Business Development and Program Manager for the Scalable Simulation Program with the USA AMRDEC. Watson has nearly 40 years of experience in the defense industry spanning numerous roles in project engineering support, line and program management, and corporate management. Prior to joining Torch, Watson served as the Director for New Product Development for Dynetics, Inc. where he led corporate business development efforts in hardware development, Air Force and technology programs. Prior to his role in Business Development, Watson led their Florida Division. Previous to that, Watson was Vice President of the Florida Division for Nichols Research Corporation.  Watson received a Bachelor of Science in Electrical Engineering from Auburn University where he was named Outstanding Graduate from the School of Engineering and a Masters of Science in Electrical Engineering from the University of Florida. Watson currently serves on the board for the Huntsville Chamber of Commerce and the Employee-Owned S Corporations of America (ESCA) Association. He has previously served as a board member of the Alabama Business Council where he was selected for the Still Ambassadorial Award for membership outreach. He also served as co-chair for the Alabama Department of Education’s Strategic Planning Committee on Mathematics in 2017.  Mr. Watson is a graduate of the Huntsville Leadership L-31 Flagship Program. This past year, Torch proudly announced that we were Certified Evergreen™. A timely achievement for Torch employee-owners as they will celebrate Torch’s 20th anniversary this October, becoming Certified Evergreen™ signifies that while Torch employee-owners can look back on Torch’s past with pride, Torch is also looking forward. Becoming Certified Evergreen™ means that Torch has committed to finding ways to make 100 percent employee ownership sustainable so that Torch will remain a private company forever.
Brad Walker
President and Board Member of Torch Technologies, Inc.
Brad Walker has been a long-term employee-owner who was named President in January of 2023. He has over 35 years of experience providing services support and solutions development for DoD programs. Mr. Walker has expertise in Ballistic Missile Defense programs, the development of advanced instrumentation for warhead testing, and the development of advanced algorithms for sensor and command and control applications. He recently served as the Vice President of the Advanced Concept Engineering (ACE) Group at Torch Technologies which included four Business Units spanning Combat Systems, Strategic Systems, Space & Joint Operations, and Technology Development. Mr. Walker led efforts in support of a diverse set of customers which provides a wide range of engineering, scientific, and logistics support throughout the DoD lifecycle in areas such as systems engineering, test and evaluation, requirements, analysis, software, electrical and mechanical system design, metrology, optical sensor instrumentation, virtual trainers, Joint operations, and obsolescence.
Prior to joining Torch Technologies, Mr. Walker held leadership positions at Computer Sciences Corporation and Nichols Research Corporation. Mr. Walker has a Bachelor of Science in Electrical Engineering from the University of Alabama at Birmingham and a Master’s of Science in Management from the Florida Institute of Technology.
Cindy Walz
Chief Financial Officer
Cindy Walz has over 30 years of experience in Finance and Accounting and joined Torch Technologies, Inc. (Torch) as Chief Financial Officer in 2017. Before joining Torch, Walz was Vice President, Finance for Vencore, Inc. (formerly Westar Aerospace/Qinetiq). In addition, Walz worked in senior finance leadership positions at Teledyne Solutions, Inc., Intergraph, Sikorsky Aircraft and United Technologies). Walz brings extensive experience in Finance and Accounting in the Government Contract Industry. She earned a B.S. in Accounting from the University of Alabama, and an MBA from Florida Atlantic University in Boca Raton, Florida.
Joe Hill
Chief Technology Officer and Board Member
Joe Hill has over 30 years of experience in Department of Defense research and development programs. He has a wide range of weapon system modeling, simulation and testing experience and is considered a subject matter expert in air and missile defense. Hill joined Torch Technologies (Torch) in December 2002 and received appointment as CTO in May 2008. At Torch, Hill has led a number of large modeling and simulation projects, and his Torch team’s achievements are distinguished by strong business ethics, enhanced customer value and advancement of state-of-the-art weapon system simulation and test. Prior to joining Torch, Hill served as a Senior Staff Manager at CAS and as a Division Director at Nichols/CSC. Hill earned a B.S in Electrical and Computer Engineering from the University of Alabama in Huntsville. This past year, Torch proudly announced that we were Certified Evergreen™. A timely achievement for Torch employee-owners as they will celebrate Torch’s 20th anniversary this October, becoming Certified Evergreen™ signifies that while Torch employee-owners can look back on Torch’s past with pride, Torch is also looking forward. Becoming Certified Evergreen™ means that Torch has committed to finding ways to make 100 percent employee ownership sustainable so that Torch will remain a private company forever.
Bill Roark
Co-Founder of Torch Technologies, Inc., Founder of Starfish Holdings, Inc., and
Founder of Freedom Real Estate & Capital, LLC and Executive Chairman of the Board
Bill Roark is the co-founder of Torch Technologies, Inc. (Torch), the co-founder and CEO of Starfish Holdings, parent company of Torch, and the founder of Freedom Real Estate & Capital, LLC. Roark has more than 30 years of Department of Defense-related experience. As the CEO of Torch, Roark guided Torch to national recognition as one of the Top 100 Fastest Growing Companies in America, according to Entrepreneur Magazine, and 15 consecutive selections on the Inc. 5000 list recognizing the Fastest Growing Private Companies, including recognition as the No. 1 Fastest Growing Privately Held Defense Contractor in the Southeast Region. During his tenure at the company, Torch was a three-time recipient of the Better Business Bureau Torch Award for outstanding business ethics and was recognized by the Huntsville/Madison County Chamber of Commerce as the Small Business of the Year in Technology (2007). Roark considers employee relations and benefits one of the most important aspects of business management, and he has worked diligently to ensure top benefits and working conditions, resulting in local recognition as one of the Best Places to Work in Huntsville/Madison County in 2018, 2017, 2016, 2012, and 2008. Torch received national recognition by The Principal Financial Group as one of The Principal 10 Best Companies for Employee Financial Security, as well as recognition by Inc. Magazine and Winning Workplaces as a Top Small Company. Before founding Torch and Starfish Holdings, Roark worked for Camber Corporation as a Senior Vice President. Prior to joining Camber, Roark was with Nichols Research Corporation, at which he worked his way up from an entry level scientist position to become the President of the Criminal Justice Systems Operations Segment. Roark earned an M.S. in Physics from the University of Kentucky and a B.S. in Mathematics from Cumberland College. This past year, Torch proudly announced that we were Certified Evergreen™. A timely achievement for Torch employee-owners as they will celebrate Torch’s 20th anniversary this October, becoming Certified Evergreen™ signifies that while Torch employee-owners can look back on Torch’s past with pride, Torch is also looking forward. Becoming Certified Evergreen™ means that Torch has committed to finding ways to make 100 percent employee ownership sustainable so that Torch will remain a private company forever.
Don Holder
Co-Founder of Torch Technologies and Board Member Emeritus
Don Holder has over 45 years of experience in DoD research and development programs. Prior to co-founding Torch Technologies, Inc. (Torch), he managed large R&D contracts for CAS Inc. and CSC/Nichols Research Corporation as a Corporate Vice President. Holder directed the CSC/Nichols Army Simulation Programs Business Unit and led modeling and simulation (M&S) initiatives across several business sectors. In this capacity, Holder was responsible for the technical and business management of a $3O-million-a-year operation. Under his management, the operation met all technical, cost and schedule requirements. Before joining Nichols, Holder worked for the U.S. Army Missile Command, working on several research projects. He served as the Technical Director of MICOM’s Fiber Optics Technology Demonstration program. He also served as the manager of several Army Tactical systems simulation and analysis efforts. Holder earned an M.S. in Electrical Engineering from the University of Michigan and a B.S. in Mathematics from Jacksonville State University. In 2015, Don Holder was designated as Director Emeritus.
Dan Bayston
Board Member
Dan Bayston joined the Board of Directors of Torch Technologies, Inc. (Torch) in September 2021. Bayston has more than 38 years of experience as a corporate finance and business valuation professional assisting publicly traded and privately held corporate clients and ERISA fiduciaries. He spent the first 25 years of his career with financial service and investment banking firm, Duff & Phelps. In 2009, he joined several former Duff & Phelps partners to form Cognient Group, LLC, where he led its Corporate Financial Advisory practice until his retirement in 2021. He also served as CEO of Cognient Securities, LLC, a broker dealer affiliate, until its sale in 2015. He is a member of many professional organizations including NCEO, ESCA, and the ESOP Association, and has served on many Boards of ESOP companies. Bayston received his MBA in Finance/Marketing from Northwestern and his BS in Finance from the University of Illinois.
Mike Stanfield
Board Member
Mike Stanﬁeld has served as a Board Member of Torch Technologies, Inc. (Torch) since 2016 and of Linc Research since 2018. Stanfield served as President of Miltec and Group Vice President of the Advanced Systems Group in Ducommun Inc., providing engineered products and high-tech proprietary systems for defense, aerospace and industrial applications, as well as engineering services in missile and aerospace system design, development, integration, and test from August 2009 and retired in April 2016. Since 2016 Stanfield has been a consultant on technology maturation and productization. He has over 40 years of experience in DoD and the intelligence community. Previously, Stanfield was Senior Vice President of Dynetics, responsible for Strategic Direction and Corporate Development. He also served as President of iMs, providing software for drug testing and drug courts. Stanfield launched Dynetics commercial activities developing software and hardware support to the automotive industry. He was also Chairman of the Board of DMD, a joint venture dedicated to the Space and Missile Defense Market. Stanfield is a member of the Engineering Leadership Society – Epsilon Lambda Chi, Engineering Honor Society – Tau Beta Pi, and the Management Honor Society – Beta Gamma Sigma. He was a founding member and served as Chairman and President of a non-profit company, Lincoln Village Preservation Corporation, refurbishing housing for low income residents in Huntsville’s historic Lincoln Village. He served on the Huntsville/Madison County Chamber of Commerce Board of Directors and is currently Chairman of the Cummings Research Park Board. Stanfield received his BS in Mechanical Engineering from North Carolina State University, his Master’s degree in Mechanical Engineering from the University of Florida, and a Master’s in Business Administration from Vanderbilt University.
Mike DeMaioribus
Board Member
Mike DeMaioribus joined the Board of Directors of Torch Technologies, Inc. (Torch) in February 2025.  DeMaioribus has extensive experience as a defense and aerospace contractor, involved in high technology areas of intelligence, missiles, aviation, cyber, space, and sensors.  He is experienced in both the technical and business operations aspects of the industry.  After a 39-year career, DeMaioribus retired as executive vice president from Dynetics, Inc., a high-technology company headquartered in Huntsville, AL. He now consults through DeMaioribus Technologies LLC, providing board and executive-level consulting to high-technology defense and aerospace firms, and he has an active TS clearance.  He holds both bachelor’s and master’s degrees in electrical engineering from Auburn University.
DeMaioribus is a member of both the Auburn University Board of Trustees and the Advisory Council of the McCrary Institute for Cyber and Critical Infrastructure Security at Auburn.  He is a 2015 inductee in the State of Alabama Engineering Hall of Fame.  He is also active in the community, having served on the Botanical Garden and Community Foundation Boards, as well as a member of the Huntsville Rotary Club and the Committee of 100.

--- Page: https://torchtechnologies.com/solutions/cybersecurity/ ---

Cybersecurity & Information Technology
Torch uses industry and DoD best practices and processes to help provide DoD with Information System Security Management (ISSM), Security Control Assessor (SCA) support and Computer Network Defense. Torch prepares for and conducts Vulnerability Assessments, data analysis, risk assessments, and Risk Management Framework (RMF) reports. The reports are used to support connection decisions such as; Authorization to Operate (ATO), Authorization to Connect (ATC), and Interim Authorization to Test (IATT). Data from tests and authorization decisions are collected, organized, stored, and shared using DoD standard tools such as Assured Compliance Assessment Solution (ACAS), enterprise Mission Assurance Support System (eMASS) and an enhanced Enterprise SharePoint solution.
Software Assurance
Assurance
Implementation of Secure Software Development best practices with static and dynamic code analysis tools, such as Micro Focus Fortify Static Code Analyzer and WebInspect, to detect vulnerabilities in the code and provide actionable remediation strategies.
Network Defense & Intrusion Detection
Network Defense
Torch provides Computer Network Defense (CND) at both the Local Control Center (LCC) and the Computer Service Provider (CSP) tiers of responsibility. Torch personnel routinely work all stages of Incident Response (IR), Cyber Tasking Orders (CTO), and Information Assurance Vulnerability Management (IAVM).
Risk Management Framework
Risk Management
Implementation, administration, support, and management of legacy DIACAP and RMF requirements; along with other federal cyber security compliance mandates such as Federal Information Security Management Act of 2002 (FISMA), Federal Information Processing Standards (FIPS) Publications, National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) Special Publications (800 Series), DoD Instruction 8500.01 and 8510.01.
Cloud Security
Security
Torch teams assist in providing data classification, data security strategy, data management, and data loss prevention using cloud security best practices.
Torch Provides Network Security within Complex Systems
Network Security within Complex Systems
Torch provides IT solutions for data management and computer applications. Torch personnel have database development, web application programming, and enterprise software development experience. We perform design and requirements analysis, implementation, quality assurance, training, documentation, and deployment. This experience is used to develop and maintain data warehouses, enterprise reporting systems, data analysis tools, and management information systems. We also develop and support enterprise-wide information systems to include designing, developing, installing, modifying, and maintaining computer hardware, software, and associated peripherals and licensing agreements. We manage routine upgrades, system security scans and configuration, security accreditation, and disaster recovery programs. Torch is also responsible for network support for classified and unclassified systems.
High Performance & Classified Computing
High Performance & Classified Computing
Engineering design of multiple secure large computer clusters and their associated networks, in addition to implementing them into classified environments and providing life cycle maintenance for the clusters.
Data Management
Data Management
Local and enterprise database and tool development for managing test resources; test results from live, constructive, and virtual engagements; and simulation configurations and results.

--- Page: https://3yiuausy.modx.dev/solutions/ ---



--- Page: https://torchtechnologies.com/solutions/sustainment/ ---

Torch Partners with Government-Industry
Torch maintains membership in the Government-Industry Data Exchange Program (GIDEP). GIDEP is a cooperative activity between government and industry participants seeking to reduce or eliminate expenditures of resources by sharing technical information essential during research, design, development, production, and operational phases of the life cycle of systems, facilities, and equipment. Torch also maintains certification in the Defense Logistics Agency (DLA) Joint Certification Program (JCP).
Diagnostic Systems Expertise
Automated Test Equipment
Torch provides solutions to address both at-platform and off-platform Automated Test Equipment (ATE). Our team develops and fields depot-level ATE as well as Test Program Sets (TPS) for standardized test systems. Our goals are to:
Minimize the Cost of Automatic Testing
Foster Interoperability of Automatic Test Systems
Reduce the Logistics Footprint
Improve the Quality of Tests by Leveraging Embedded Diagnostic Data
Our test team has decades of ATE experience and applies best practices to select test solutions that are tailored for each customer’s unique requirements.
Commercial Off-The-Shelf Solutions
Custom Testing Solutions
Off-Platform Test Systems
At-Platform Test Systems
We develop COTS-based qualified test solutions by mapping test requirements to instrumentation and packaging those into a right-size and right-cost solution. We perform make-buy decisions and recommend instrumentation suites that encompass PXI, VXI, LXI solutions.
We develop and deliver custom test solutions, to include equipment HWIL simulators to evaluate LRU/SRU interfaces. This is particularly useful in designing test systems for obsolete or undocumented components.
We develop and re-host TPSs and associated components such as Interface Test Adapters (ITA) for all manner of off-platform and depot-level standardized test equipment. Our experience spans IFTE, NGATS, VDATS, CASS, and Spectrum among others.
We develop both custom and standardized small form-factor at-platform test equipment solutions to support field maintenance activities. Our experience includes designing custom hardware and integrating with systems such as the Maintenance Support Device (MSD) and ruggedized computing systems.
Testing Equipment and Diagnostics
Our test equipment and diagnostic systems expertise spans aviation systems, weapon systems, ground systems, maritime systems, sensors, and support equipment. Torch offers expertise in integration with both analog and digital equipment to include MIL-STD-1553, ARINC 429, and numerous OEM and industry standard bus protocols.
No system is complete without documentation. Our technical documentation team produces and delivers high quality MIL-STD technical data (TDPs, TMs, RPSTLs, etc.) and instructions (DMWRs, MWOs, etc.) needed to fully implement our customers’ organic test and repair solutions..
LIFE CYCLE SUSTAINMENT
Proactive Lifecycle Support
As a result of continuing fiscal constraints, today’s warfighter systems are often in use decades beyond their planned lifecycle. Rapid advancement in commercial technology impacts production and planned sustainment support for critical weapons platforms. Many new systems in development experience obsolescence issues prior to reaching Low-Rate Initial Production (LRIP). Torch provides a wide range of proactive services to help warfighter programs manage risk associated with lifecycle sustainment.
Obsolescence Management
Organic Repair Development
Form-Fit-Function
Counterfeit Risk Management
The key to managing obsolescence is to identify risks early enough to plan and budget for cost-effective long-term solutions. Utilizing the Multifunctional Obsolescence Resolution Environment (MORE) database in conjunction with commercially available research tools, Torch provides continuous monitoring of components and assemblies that enable proactive management of obsolescence. Torch and the Government customer team with DoD Program Offices and OEMs to develop plans that mitigate obsolescence before it occurs. Typical mitigation strategies include End-of-Life buys, redesigns or qualifying an alternate part.
Repair programs allow customers to sustain an existing, limited supply of parts until newer replacement parts become available. Torch engineers devise organic depot and unit level test systems and repair procedures. Torch develops and validates all the necessary MIL-STD documentation required for depot and unit-level repairs, such as Technical Manuals (TM), Maintenance Work Orders (MWO), and Depot Maintenance Work Requirements (DMWR). Torch delivers comprehensive Technical Data Packages (TDP) and TDP updates to the Government.
Re-Design A form-fit-function re-design is beneficial when parts have been abandoned by the OEM or in instances where parts are failing at an uneconomical rate. Torch can characterize performance characteristics using lab testing or through part research to develop a complete form-fit-function replacement part. When performing a re-design effort, Torch develops and delivers complete TDPs, TMs, and other MIL-STD documentation to the customer needed for future procurement, production, and sustainment of the replacement.
Counterfeit parts pose critical safety issues to the Warfighter and cost concerns to the DoD. Defense electronics represent only a small portion of the overall electronics market. Factors such as part availability, long lead times, stringent DoD performance requirements, foreign foundries, and cost drivers can all lead to insertion of counterfeit parts in the supply chain. This may involve re-marking or re-packaging stolen or non-working parts or insertion of unapproved substitutions. Torch works with the Government to closely monitor the pedigree of part suppliers.
Torch Partners with Government-Industry
Torch maintains membership in the Government-Industry Data Exchange Program (GIDEP). GIDEP is a cooperative activity between government and industry participants seeking to reduce or eliminate expenditures of resources by sharing technical information essential during research, design, development, production, and operational phases of the life cycle of systems, facilities, and equipment. Torch also maintains certification in the Defense Logistics Agency (DLA) Joint Certification Program (JCP).

--- Page: https://www.simvana.com/ ---

Your browser does not support the video tag.
Revolutionize
Healthcare Training
Scale high-quality clinical education across your organization through immersive VR scenarios and learning, saving time and resources while delivering consistent excellence.
Book a Demo
TRUSTED BY HOSPITALS & UNIVERSITIES ACROSS THE COUNTRY
Get hands-on practice through immersive simulation
Learn, build confidence, and master skills anytime, anywhere. Our realistic, interactive simulations mirror real-world clinical situations.
Freely experiment in fully simulated virtual environments that react to your actions.
Accelerate learning with our library of learning content
Whether you are student learning new topics, or a professional mastering advanced procedures, our library of learning content has something for you.
Learning content is delivered through a mix of instructional text, multimedia visuals, interactive objectives and review questions.
Simplify training management and delivery
Reduce your administrative workload with our web-based learning management system. Instructors can create lesson plans, monitor performance, and dive into progress data with a few clicks on any phone, tablet, or PC.
Learners can also access our portal to get customized learning paths, review assignments, and generate completion certificates without the need for instructor action.
Learn more about SIMVANA's User Portal
Explore our specialized training solutions
SIMVANA Anesthesia
Master anesthesia procedures with our detailed simulations and lessons, designed to build confidence and competence in the operating room.
See our Anesthesia Training
SIMVANA Nursing
Enhance nursing skills through immersive VR scenarios that provide practical experience in patient care.
See our Nurse Training
"SIMVANA has been incredible to reinforce active learning, learners are able to quickly pick up concepts and understand in the real world what they did in the virtual world."
- Scot Pettey, Gonzaga Program Director
A full virtual operating room packed into a VR headset.
SIMVANA applications run on Meta Quest headsets. Get the headsets shipped straight to your door.
SIMVANA is SOC 2 Type I certified. This certification underscores our commitment to the highest standards of security, availability, and confidentiality in managing your data. You can trust that we take every measure to ensure your information is protected with the utmost care.
Learn more about SOC 2 certifications here
Get Started Today!
Join the growing community of healthcare professionals who trust SIMVANA for their educational needs. Elevate your training experience and prepare for excellence in patient care with our innovative VR solutions.
Book a Demo

--- Page: https://torchtechnologies.com/terms-of-use/ ---

Terms of Use
Terms of Use
(Effective 10/2022)
Torch
maintains
www.torchtechnologies.com
and other external websites (collectively, ‘the Site”). By using the Site, you agree that you have read, understand, and agree to these terms of use (“Terms
of Use”), which incorporate
our Privacy Statement
. By accessing the Site, you (“User”) accept without limitation or
qualification and
agree to be bound by and abide by these Terms of Use.
Torch
may
modify
and
/or
update these Terms of Use
at any time without notice
in its sole discretion
.
You can determine when these terms were last revised by referring to the “Effective Date” at the top of this page.
Y
our continued use of the Site following such posting means that you accept and agree to
all
changes to the Terms of Use.
User Obligations
You may use the Site only for lawful purposes and in accordance with these Terms of Use. You agree not to: (
i
) post any content
to
the Site except with
Torch
’s prior written consent; (ii) use the Site in any manner that could disable, overburden, damage, or impair the Site, or interfere with any other use of the Site, including, but not limited to, any user’s ability to engage in real-time activities through the Site; (iii) use any
automatic measure, method, tool,
or other device, process to access the Site for any purpose, including to monitor or copy any of the material on the Site; (iv) use any manual process to monitor or copy any of the material on the Site, or to engage in any other unauthorized purpose without the express prior written consent of
Torch
; (v) otherwise use any device, software or routine that interferes with the
intended purpose of the
Site; or (vi) otherwise attempt to interfere with the proper working of the Site. You further understand and acknowledge that any unauthorized or illegal use of the Site
may
be in violation of state and federal law, and you will be subject to criminal and civil penalties as a result.
Unless otherwise indicated, the Site and the material on the Site, including but not limited to all text,
design or development
code, graphics, button images
,
and "look and feel," are owned or licensed by
Torch
and are protected pursuant to U.S. and foreign copyright, trademark, and other laws. No intellectual property or other rights in or to the Site or its contents are
deferred or in any way
transferred to
the user
. The information provided on the Site is provided solely for informational purposes and does not create any business, contractual or employment relationship.
Name, brand
and
all
other services marks or trademarks used on the Site are the registered and/or unregistered service marks or trademarks of
Torch
or its licensors. The use of these or any other service marks or trademarks on the Site is prohibited without express written permission from us and/or the owner of any such service mark or trademark.
Unless expressly permitted, you may not create a link to the Site.
The
Site may contain links to other Sites, including various social media Sites.
Torch
does not regularly review materials on sites linked to from the Site
nor does it
necessarily endorse the materials appearing on any sites linked to
, from, or associated with
the Site.
Torch
assumes no responsibility for the content or the
policies and practices of such other
S
ites. We encourage you to be aware when you leave the Site and to read the privacy policies of any other site that you visit.
NO WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF WARRANTY; LIMITATION OF LIABILITY; and INDEMNITY
THE MATERIAL ON THE SITE IS PROVIDED ’AS IS’ AND ‘AS AVAILABLE’ AND IS WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND.
TORCH
DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF TITLE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, WITH RESPECT TO THE SITE AND THE MATERIAL ON THE SITE.
TORCH
ALSO MAKES NO REPRESENTATIONS OR WARRANTIES AS TO WHETHER THE INFORMATION ACCESSIBLE ON THE SITE IS ACCURATE, COMPLETE, OR CURRENT.
TORCH
MAKES NO REPRESENTATION THAT MATERIALS IN THE SITE ARE LEGALLY ACCESSIBLE FROM ANY PARTICULAR LOCATION AND ACCESS TO THEM FROM TERRITORIES WHERE THEIR CONTENTS ARE ILLEGAL IS PROHIBITED.
TORCH
ALSO ASSUMES NO RESPONSIBILITY, AND SHALL NOT BE LIABLE FOR, ANY DAMAGES TO, OR VIRUSES THAT MAY INFECT, COMPUTER EQUIPMENT OR OTHER PROPERTY ON ACCOUNT OF ACCESS TO, USE OF, OR BROWSING IN THE SITE OR DOWNLOADING OF ANY MATERIALS, DATA, TEXT, IMAGES, VIDEO, OR AUDIO FROM THE SITE. THIS DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY APPLIES TO ANY DAMAGES OR INJURY CAUSED BY ANY FAILURE OF PERFORMANCE, ERROR, OMISSION, INTERRUPTION, DELETION, DEFECT, DELAY IN OPERATION OR TRANSMISSION, COMPUTER VIRUS, COMMUNICATION LINE FAILURE, THEFT OR DESTRUCTION OR UNAUTHORIZED ACCESS TO, ALTERATION OF, OR USE OF THE SITE, WHETHER FOR BREACH OF CONTRACT, TORTIOUS BEHAVIOR, NEGLIGENCE, OR UNDER ANY OTHER CAUSE OF ACTION. TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAWS, IN NO EVENT SHALL
TORCH
BE LIABLE FOR ANY DAMAGES OF ANY KIND OR CHARACTER, INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION ANY COMPENSATORY, INCIDENTAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL, PUNITIVE, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES, LOSS OF USE, LOSS OF DATA, LOSS OF INCOME OR PROFIT, LOSS OF OR DAMAGE TO PROPERTY, CLAIMS OF THIRD PARTIES, OR OTHER LOSSES OF ANY KIND OR CHARACTER, EVEN IF
TORCH
HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES OR LOSSES, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SITE OR THE CONTENTS OF THE SITE. CERTAIN STATE LAWS MAY NOT PERMIT LIMITATIONS ON IMPLIED WARRANTIES OR THE EXCLUSION OR LIMITATION OF CERTAIN TYPES OF DAMAGES, AND THUS SOME OR ALL OF THE DISCLAIMERS, EXCLUSIONS, OR LIMITATIONS ABOVE MAY NOT APPLY TO YOU.
You will indemnify and hold
Torch h
armless from and against
any and all
claims, losses, and damages, including attorneys’ fees, that arise in connection with your use of the Site or your breach of these Terms of Use and/or the Privacy Statement.
SECURITY
T
orch
follows generally accepted
business
standards to protect the information collected on the Site.
While Torch is committed to protecting your Personal Information from unauthorized access, use, or disclosure, we cannot fully eliminate all security risks. Torch maintains safeguards to protect Personal Information, but no Internet system can be 100% secure.
Therefore,
Torch
cannot guarantee the absolute security of such information.
CHOICE OF LAW
These Terms of Use shall be governed by the laws of the
State of Alabama
without regard to its conflicts of law rules.

--- Page: https://torchtechnologies.com/employees/employee-single-sign-on-portal/ ---



--- Page: https://torchtechnologies.com/solutions/ ---

TORCH… A SOLUTIONS COMPANY
Torch is not just another services company. We combine superior technical services with in-house labs, tools, and expertise needed to solve the toughest engineering challenges. By connecting our employee owners in the field with these resources, Torch is able to deliver support that goes above and beyond our competitors.
Advanced Technologies
Cybersecurity & IT
Engineering
Environmental & Safety
Lifecycle Sustainment
Modeling & Simulation
Software Development
Test & Evaluation
MANUFACTURING FACILITIES
TIPC Facility
Torch provides end-to-end product design and development services, bringing ideas from an initial concept all the way through production and sustainment. Our engineering teams possess decades of experience designing electronic, mechanical, and optical systems. Through our Technology Integration and Prototyping Center (TIPC), we can rapidly produce, integrate, and test complex product prototypes.
WHAT'S TIPC
TIPC Solutions
Our offerings include both design consultation services as well as turnkey product development. For turnkey solutions, our engineering teams create detailed project schedules to mitigate risk and conducts regular in-progress reviews to ensure the final design will meet expectations.
NEED HELP? LET'S TALK

--- Page: https://torchtechnologies.com/solutions/software-development/ ---

High-End Enterprise to Embedded Software
Torch designs, develops tests, delivers, and supports both runtime and real-time software in various applications. Our experience with software development comprises both Linux and Windows operating systems and has been tested with both classified and unclassified systems. Torch frequently uses programming languages such as C#, C++, Java, Python.
Artificial Intelligence and - Machine Learning
Big Data
Enterprise Applications
Cloud Architecture
Real-Time Applications
Model-Based Software
Torch teams provide intelligence augmentation (IA) for weapon systems engineering, prototyping and operations. Torch supports adapting AI technologies to improve operator efficacy when using defensive weapon systems.
Engineers develop automation for batch driven processes and perform analysis on large datasets in support of Ground Vehicle Systems, missile testing, and aiding in decision support. Engineers have a wide range of skills and have experience collecting, interpreting, and analyzing data using various analytical methods and statistical techniques.
Torch engineers develop geographically dispersed enterprise-based applications. Our portfolio consists of systems used for tactical mission planning, distributed computational analysis, diagnostic applications, and web-based planning systems among others. Torch teams provide support to government labs in the creation of enterprise platform simulation framework.
Torch teams have expertise in developing frontend platform, backend platforms and cloud-based technology. This enables Torch to develop and deploy software solutions more rapidly for our customers.
Torch has developed a wide range of real-time applications, from low-level embedded systems to large-scale high-performance compute-cluster systems. This includes development of sophisticated safety-critical operational software systems such as UAS ground stations and radar calibration systems.
Torch development teams use a Model-Driven Architecture approach. Using UML modeling tools, Torch can rapidly produce complex interface-compliant software. We provide expertise to develop, enhance, evaluate, and maintain a suite of distributed digital simulation, and system-of-systems specific to Hardware in the Loop (HWIL) and virtual simulations.
Ensuring Continuous Quality and Process Improvement
Scaled Modern Software Delivery
Torch software developers and engineers use agile methodologies across teams of teams and business units. We organize software development around value, applying incremental, fast development cycle.

--- Page: https://www.instagram.com/torchtechnologiesinc/ ---



--- Page: https://torchtechnologies.com/privacy-policy/ ---

Privacy Policy
Privacy Statement (effective 10/2022)
Torch Technologies, Inc. (Torch) respects your concerns about privacy. This Privacy Statement applies to
www.torchtechnologies.com
and other external websites (collectively, ‘the Site”) that link to this Statement. It describes the types of information collected to include but not limited to Personal Information, and our use, and disclosure of the information during the course of business (Our “Services”), and the rights and choices available to you.
Furthermore, your use of the Site is subject to this Privacy Statement and our related
Terms of Use
.
Personal and Other Information
Through your use of the Site or Services, Torch may collect "Personal Information", which is information that identifies or relates to an individual. As examples, Personal Information may include your name, physical address, telephone number, e-mail address, emergency contact details, company affiliation, and associated interests.
Torch may also collect "Other Information" through your interaction with and use of the Site. As examples, Other Information may include browser and device information, data collected through automated electronic interactions, application usage data, demographic information, geographic or geo-location information, and statistical or aggregated data.
Statistical or aggregated data does not directly identify a specific person, but it may be derived from Personal Information. For example, we may aggregate Personal Information to calculate the percentage of users in a particular zip code.
In some instances, we may combine Other Information with Personal Information. In such cases, we will treat the combined information as Personal Information.
Information Provided by User
If you provide Personal Information through the Site using our online contact forms, Torch may store the Personal Information to assist in responding to applicable request(s).
If applying to the Careers page, the Personal Information received may be used for Human Resources purposes to include but not limited to communicating with you in writing, by telephone, or online; evaluating your application; analyzing our staffing needs and practices; or supporting other actions related to employment consideration and/or employee administration. Such data may be combined with research tools and information from other sources for business analytics purposes. Unless you request otherwise, Torch may maintain your Personal Information for future consideration. If you provide Personal Information through links to third party websites, you may be asked to provide additional information by these websites.
Information We Collect by Automated Tools
When you access the Site, Torch may collect other Information by automated means, including the use of cookies, web server logs, and third-party analytics.
Cookies are small pieces of data or data files that are sent by a website to your web browser and stored on your computer. They are used to understand general traffic patterns on the Site. The Other Information stored in the cookie is used for statistical tracking and business analytics, but not for individual identification. Cookies are also used to prefill forms so that you do not need to re-enter the data, such as when you apply for a job online. Torch may use the aggregated data to provide feedback to our web designers, content providers, or business managers to assist them in continual improvement of the Site and Services offered.
You may refuse to accept browser cookies by activating the appropriate setting on your browser otherwise by connecting your browser to the Site, cookies will be issued by the system. If you refuse to accept browser cookies, you may be unable to access certain parts of the Site.
Additionally, web servers may log Other Information such as your device type, operating system type, browser type, domain, and other system settings, as well as the language your system uses and the country and time zone where your device is located. Other Information such as the address of the webpage that referred you to the Site and the IP address of the device you use to connect to the Site may also be retained. Additionally, Torch may use Other Information such as pages you visit as part of our business analytics and continual Site improvement.
Torch may use third party web analytics to help analyze users’ engagement with the Site. The Other Information collected will be disclosed to, or collected by, these third-party service providers.
How We Use Your Personal Information
In accordance with applicable laws, Torch may use your Personal and Other Information for the purposes listed below:
to send information you requested or "opted-in" to receive
to contact you in the event of an emergency
to evaluate your qualifications for employment and contact you, as appropriate, for employment opportunities
to support human resource employee administration, recruitment, and hiring activity
to support proposals and contracts to/from our customer base
to identify, prevent, and protect against cybersecurity and other security events, espionage, fraud, unlawful activity, claims, and other liabilities, and to maintain the safety and security of the Site, products, technology assets, and organization
to comply with and enforce applicable legal requirements and standards consistent with industry practices and corporate policies
to help maintain the safety, security, and integrity of the Site, Services, databases, and other technology assets, products, and business activities
for testing, research, analysis, design, and development, to include but not limited to improvement of the Site, services, and organization
as described herein when collecting applicable information
to evaluate or conduct activities within the organization in which information collected may be required in the course of business.
Information That May be Shared
Torch may disclose Personal or Other Information for as the purposes listed below:
to comply with and enforce applicable legal requirements or to support a legal process
to support proposals and contracts to/from our customer base
when formally requested by law enforcement or other government entities
when we believe disclosure is necessary or appropriate to prevent harm or financial loss
in connection with an investigation of suspected or actual espionage, cybersecurity, or security events, or other fraudulent or illegal activity
any other legal purpose
Shared with external service providers in accordance with written contracts in the normal course of business
In the event of sell or transfer of all or part of the organization and/or assets
Recruitment
Torch may collect recruiting information from individuals who visit the Site and are interested in career opportunities with Torch. To this end, the Site may provide an opportunity to view available jobs and submit online application and provide assistance to those that may need a reasonable accommodation.
If you choose to respond to an available job via online application, the provided information will be used to evaluate your eligibility for employment and contact you as applicable.
Privacy as Related to Minors
Torch does not knowingly collect or use any Personal Information from children under the age of 13 on the Site. We do not knowingly allow children to communicate with us or use any of our online services. If you are a parent and have become aware that your child has provided us with information, please contact us using the contact link on the Site.
How We Protect Personal InformationWhile Torch is committed to protecting your Personal Information from unauthorized access, use, or disclosure, we cannot fully eliminate all security risks. Torch maintains safeguards to protect Personal Information, but no Internet system can be 100% secure.
Changes to Privacy Statement
Torch may modify this Privacy Statement at any time without notice. We recommend you visit this page frequently to determine if any changes have occurred. You can determine when this Privacy Statement was last revised by referring to the "Effective Date" at the top of this page. Any changes to this Privacy Statement will become effective upon posting on this Site. A User’s continued use of the Site or provision of personal information to use the Site following such changes indicates acceptance to the revised Privacy Policy.
Links to Other Websites
This Privacy Statement applies only to the Site. You should be aware that through links you may be directed to other websites that we do not control. Torch has no control over the privacy notices, policies, or practices of these other websites, and is not responsible for the privacy practices or the content of websites to which we link, list, rank or identify by means of a search. Torch takes no responsibility for the products, services, policies, or actions of third parties or the content of third-party websites. When you leave the Site and go to a third-party website, we encourage you to read the privacy policies and other notices posted.
Your Rights and Choices
In the Torch Careers site, you can sign up to receive Torch Job Alerts.  We offer "opt-in" lists so you can sign up and remove your alert at any time.  To unsubscribe, simply login to the job site and remove your email address associated to each job alert that you created.
California Privacy Rights
If you are a California resident, you have the right to request that we disclose certain information to you about our collection and use of your personal information over the past 12 months. Once we receive and confirm your identity as well as the verifiable consumer request, we will disclose to you:
The categories of personal information we collected about you.
The categories of sources for the personal information we collected about you.
Our business or commercial purpose for collecting or selling that personal information.
The categories of third parties with whom we share that personal information.
The specific pieces of personal information we collected about you (also called a data portability request).
A list of the categories of personal information we disclosed about you for a business purpose.
To exercise your rights in this section, please submit your request within the Contact Us page.
California residents are also entitled once a year, free of charge, to request and obtain certain information regarding our disclosure, if any, of certain categories of personal data to third parties for their direct marketing purposes in the preceding calendar year. Torch does not share personal data with third parties for their direct marketing purposes.
Do-Not-Track Signals and Similar Mechanisms
. Some web browsers may transmit “do-not-track” signals to the websites and other online services with which a user communicates. There is no industry standard that governs what, if anything, websites should do when they receive these signals. Torch currently does not take action in response to these signals.
No Discrimination
. Torch will not discriminate against any consumer for exercising their rights under the California Consumer Privacy Act.
Consent to Data Transfer
While Torch conducts business in the United States and other countries, we are headquartered in Huntsville, Alabama, USA. Therefore, if you proceed to use the site, your Information may be transferred to or accessible by entities or individuals in the United States and processed according to the terms described in this Privacy Statement.
Personal Information collected by Torch may be stored and processed in your region, in the United States, and/or in any other country where Torch or its service providers conduct business. The primary storage location is in the United States or a customer’s region (which may also be the United States), often with a backup to a disaster recovery data center at another location. Storage location(s) are chosen to operate efficiently, enhance connectivity, and promote disaster recovery to protect the data in the event of an outage or other problem.
Torch (or our service providers) may transfer Personal Information from the EEA to other countries, some of which have not yet been determined by the European Commission to have an adequate level of data protection. For example, those countries’ laws may not guarantee you the same rights, or there may not be a government authority capable of addressing your concerns. When we engage in such transfers, we use a variety of legal mechanisms, including contracts and written assurances from service providers, to help ensure your rights and protections travel with your Personal Information. To learn more about the European Commission’s decisions on the adequacy of the personal data protection, please visit:
Adequacy of the protection of personal data in non-EU countries
.
By continuing to use the site, you authorize Torch and its service providers to transfer your Information to or make it available in accordance with this Privacy Statement.

--- Page: https://torchtechnologies.com/careers/why-choose-torch/ ---

Why Torch...
Torch Technologies provides quality technical services while maintaining ethical business practices. We are leaders in research, development, engineering, planning, execution, performance analysis, design, and reporting in the following areas: research and development; system engineering; modeling and simulation; test and evaluation; advanced technologies; manned and unmanned aircraft systems; information assurance; computer network defense; and information technology.
Ethics
Ethics
Our goal is to be recognized as the premier services and solutions provider for our customers. We strive to be recognized for our integrity, respect, and commitment we give to our customers.
Employee-Ownership
Employee-Ownership
As a 100% employee-owned company, employees all have a stake in the success of the company. Our employees are highly incentivized to work together.
CULTURE
CULTURE
We believe in giving back to our communities. Torch's culture of cooperation is something our employees are very proud of and is one of the key reasons for our success.
EMPLOYEE-OWNERSHIP
Employee-Ownership
When co-founders Bill Roark and Don Holder formed Torch Technologies, both had previously worked for companies that were sold. Neither wanted to repeat that experience and in establishing Torch, they wanted every employee to feel secure that their career would not be derailed by a merger or acquisition. Additionally, they wanted to start a company that treated all employees fairly and allowed employees to share in the ownership of the company. At Torch, we are all employee owners.
EMPLOYEE STOCK OWNERSHIP PROGRAM
ESOP
Torch looks to hire employee-owners, not just employees.  Torch employee-owners achieve the highest levels of performance, always striving to exceed expectations. We are known for our integrity—our employee-owners are honest, trustworthy, dependable, and always strive to do the right thing. Our employee-owners act in such a way as to uphold Torch’s corporate ethics and reputation. We consistently lend our efforts to solve the problem at hand—and support the goals of the company and its customers.
Torch achieved its long-time goal of 100% employee-ownership in December 2011 through the implementation of the Employee Stock Ownership Plan (ESOP).
ESOP is an additional retirement plan benefit.  For more on ESOP, listen to Bill Roark's "Employee Owner" podcast.
...CHANGE AGENTS
Apply Now
Torch maintains an excellent work environment that includes competitive compensation, outstanding benefits, and rewarding work assignments with major opportunities for advancement. This could be your opportunity to join a growing, fast-paced company that is setting standards for superior technical services. To be considered for employment opportunities, you must complete an online application.
JOIN OUR TEAM
All qualified applicants will receive consideration for employment without regard to race, color, religion, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, national origin, age, genetic information, citizenship, ancestry, marital status, protected veteran status, disability status or any other status protected by federal, state, or local law. Torch Technologies, Inc. participates in E-Verify.
If you are a qualified individual with a disability or a disabled veteran, you have the right to request a reasonable accommodation if you are unable or limited in your ability to use or access
https://torchtechnologies.hua.hrsmart.com/ats
as a result of your disability. You can request reasonable accommodations by sending an email to
HR@torchtechnologies.com
. Thank you for your interest in Torch Technologies.
E-Verify
EEO is Law
Right to Work
Torch EEO Statement

--- Page: https://torchtechnologies.com/events/michigan-career-expo/ ---

Events
Events
>
Michigan Career Expo
Michigan Career Expo
Wednesday, April 30, 2025
Torch will be attending the Michigan Career Expo on April 30 from 9 a.m. - 3 p.m. at the Radisson Hotel - 26555 Telegraph Road, Southfield, Michigan.
You are encouraged to stop by and discuss your career interests and open positions with our hiring team.To learn more about our open positions, visit our
Careers Page.
TAGS:
Intern
Military
Upcoming Events
April 30, 2025
Michigan Career Expo
November 17, 2025
AAAA Cribbins Readiness Conference
August 12, 2025
Ground Vehicle Systems Engineering & Technology Symposium…
August 05, 2025
Space & Missile Defense (SMD) Symposium

--- Page: https://torchtechnologies.com/careers/benefits/ ---

Find Your Benefits
Torch’s benefits program is unlike no other in our industry. We believe in taking care of our employee-owners, now and into the future, and provide generous annual contributions to our benefit programs that surpass industry averages. This employee-owned approach is what led Torch to be recognized as one of “the Principal 10 Best Companies for Employee Financial Security” by the Principal Financial Group.  We’ve Got you covered:
Financial Security
Health and Well-Being
Work-Life Programs
Professional Development
Employee Stock Ownership Plan (ESOP) with Stock Appreciation Rights
Traditional and Roth 401 (k) with company match
Short-term (STD) and Long-Term Disability (LTD)
Health and Dependent Care Flexible Spending Accounts (FSAs)
Company-provided Life and AD&D Insurance
Medical PPO Plan
HDHPP with HSA and HRA
Prescription Drug Plan
Benefit Opt-out Program
Dental Benefits
Vision Benefits
Wellness Program with cash rewards
Accrued Paid Time-off (PTO)
PTO Donation Program
Paid Holidays
Flexible Scheduling and Compensated Overtime
Paid Military, Jury Duty, and Bereavement Leave
Educational Assistance for tuition, fees & textbooks
Continuing education courses
Professional certification assistance
Leadership and management training programs
Interest-free computer loans
Apply Now
Torch maintains an excellent work environment that includes competitive compensation, outstanding benefits, and rewarding work assignments with major opportunities for advancement. This could be your opportunity to join a growing, fast-paced company that is setting standards for superior technical services. To be considered for employment opportunities, you must complete an online application.
JOIN OUR TEAM
Torch Technologies is an Equal Opportunity/Affirmative Action Employer. Employment decisions are made without regard to race, color, religion, national origin, gender, sexual orientation, gender identity, age, physical or mental disability, genetic factors, military/veteran status, or other characteristics protected by law.
Torch seeks to provide a fully accessible career site. If you need assistance or an accommodation to participate in our application process, please
contact us
.
E-Verify
EEO is Law
Right to Work
Torch EEO Statement

--- Page: https://torchtechnologies.com/contracts/gsa-schedules/ ---

GSA Schedules
General Services Administration (GSA) schedules are competitively awarded contracts available for use by U.S. government agencies and their approved contractors to obtain products and services in a streamlined and simplified manner. For additional information regarding the use of GSA schedules, please visit the official GSA Website or contact your Government Acquisition Specialist for specific U.S. government agency procedures.
Professional Engineering Services
Information Technology
May 14, 2021
Torch Awarded S3I OASIS HWIL Missile Task Order
Torch Technologies (Torch) is pleased to announce the award of a $1.1 billion task order by U.S. Army Combat Capabilities Development Command (DEVCOM)…
May 13, 2021
Torch Awarded S3I OASIS HWIL SoS Task Order
Torch Technologies (Torch) is pleased to announce the award of a $1.065 billion task order by U.S. Army Combat Capabilities Development Command (DEVCOM)…
May 12, 2021
Torch Awarded S3I OASIS M&S Aviation and Missile Systems…
Torch Technologies (Torch) is pleased to announce the award of a $722 million task order by U.S. Army Combat Capabilities Development Command (DEVCOM)…
October 29, 2020
Torch Awarded OASIS Full & Open Pools 1, 3, and 4
Torch Technologies (Torch) is pleased to announce we were awarded GSA's One Acquisition Solution for Integrated Services (OASIS) Full & Open Pools 1, 3,…

--- Page: https://torchtechnologies.com/company/company-profile/torch-helps/ ---

Torch Helps
Torch Helps, an employee-run and funded 501(c)(3) charitable organization, has provided grants to more than 125 local charities since its inception in June 2005. Torch Helps is voluntarily funded and operated by Torch employees. It raises contributions for local charities through payroll deduction and designated gifts. The organization operates under the direction of a volunteer review board, which receives formal grant applications from charities that are then evaluated against a consistent set of questions to screen applicants. Applicants are also evaluated against the Better Business Bureau's Wise Giving Alliance Standards for Charity Accountability. When a charity passes these standards, the charities are voted on by contributing employees. The highest calling in life is to help others. Torch supports our employees' charitable efforts by covering all of the administrative costs of Torch Helps. Thus, 100 percent of the donations to Torch Helps goes to the organizations selected by the employees. Torch Helps believes that "Together Our Resources Can Help." This captures the spirit and inspiration of Torch's culture of giving. To date, Torch Helps has given more than $1.3 million to our local communities.
TOGETHER OUR RESOURCES CAN HELP
Experience OUR Impact
To date, Torch Helps has provided more than 1.3 million dollars in direct grants. Of course, the real impact is not measured in dollars and cents. It is reflected in the young mother who now has her own home and a dream to start her own business. It is felt by the disabled lady who no longer has to suffer the sweltering heat of a long, dry summer. It is honored by the Boy Scout Troop who decided to give half their new camping gear to a troop that was affected by Hurricane Katrina. We may never see most of the people whose lives have been made a little better by the small amounts that we give every two weeks, but we consider it an honor to support the local charities and their volunteers who do.
GRANT INFORMATION
Receiving Grants
Torch Helps awards large and small grants to local charities who are making a difference in our communities. Charities must be nonprofit 501(c)(3) organizations that provide services to our local communities. Visit TorchHelps.org for additional qualification requirements. A Torch Helps grant application form must be completed in full before a charity can be included in the vote.
VISIT TorchHELPS.ORG
Torch Helps In The Early Years
Just months after Torch Helps was established, one of its first efforts was assisting survivors of Hurricane Katrina around Waveland, MS, the hometown of a senior manager at Torch. “I knew I had to do something; I didn’t know what,” he said about learning of the devastation along the Gulf Coast. He soon headed to the Mississippi coast in his van, hauling a utility trailer with food, tents, clothing, gasoline, and propane tanks. After he returned to Huntsville, the urge to help still lingered, particularly a childhood friend who was the sheriff of a hard-hit area. The Torch senior manager appealed to Torch Helps, and the organization received significant contributions from Torch customers, colleagues, and original investors.
Torch employees also collected items and put together care packages to send to disaster victims. In all, $10,000 in cash and equipment such as generators, chain saws, and propane tanks were donated to the relief effort.
SCAM ALERT
It has come to our attention that the TorchHelps name has been fraudulently used by third parties, often communicating via phone or through “fake” websites in an attempt to obtain personal or financial information.
Please note that TorchHelps only provides grants to approved 501(c)3 charitable organizations through the official grant application process.
TorchHelps will
never
ask an individual for personal or financial information or money in exchange for a grant opportunity.
Anyone receiving a fraudulent call or message from a third party claiming to be TorchHelps should report the incident to the appropriate law enforcement agency for your area.
SCAM ALERT

--- Page: https://torchtechnologies.com/company/quality/ ---

Our Commitment to Quality
The foundation of Torch's quality management practices are our core values of excellence, reliability, and integrity. Our employee-owners and corporate leadership formalized Torch's quality management program to help us maintain and continually improve our performance. As part of these practices, we flow these requirements down to our subcontractors and suppliers. The result is consistent performance and on-time delivery. Torch's quality program is independently examined and certified.
Our Quality Policy
Torch Technologies is committed to customer satisfaction and continual improvement of the Quality Management System (QMS) by providing customer service and support of the highest quality to meet all our customers' needs and expectations.
Our Environmental Policy
Torch Technologies is committed to protecting the environment by practicing pollution prevention, ensuring compliance to our relevant environmental obligations, and continuously improving our Environmental Management System (EMS).
Scope of our AS9100 Rev. D and ISO 14001:2015 Certifications
Provide Engineering, Support Products,and Services to Government and Commercial Organizations at the Technology Integration and Prototyping Center (TIPC 1 &2 ) located at 4050 Chris Drive and 4040 Chris Drive, Huntsville, AL 35802.
ISO
9001:2015
Registered by EAGLE Registrations
ISO
14001:2015
Registered by EAGLE Registrations
AS9100
Rev. D
Registered by EAGLE Registrations

--- Page: https://alphatoro.com ---

I saw the angel in the marble and carved until I set him free.
- Michelangelo
1475 - 1546
Rome, Italy
His work demonstrated a blend of psychological insight, realism and intensity never before seen. Drawing inspiration from Michelangelo, Alpha Toro aims to do the same with our client work.
WORK FEATURED ON
OUR SERVICES
WEBSITES
DESIGN
BRANDING
HOME
BUILDERS
While you build the house, our team at Alpha Toro constructs dreams and redefines the concept of 'home.' With a deep understanding of the home builder industry, we specialize in crafting compelling narratives that resonate with your audience's aspirations. Our team skillfully communicates the essence of craftsmanship, innovation, and comfort that your brand embodies. Whether it's architectural marvels, sustainable living, or community-focused developments, we construct marketing strategies that lay the foundation for a lasting connection between your brand and those seeking a place to call their own. Partner with us to build not just structures, but legacies within the evolving landscape of the home builder industry.
VIEW MORE
LAW FIRMS
Welcome to Alpha Toro, where we merge legal expertise with refined marketing strategies. Our team crafts compelling campaigns that resonate with intellect and emotions, positioning your brand effectively in the legal landscape. Whether you're a law firm or legal service provider, we build confidence and lasting connections through impactful content and campaigns. Let us be your partner in advocating your brand's message with clarity and authority in the legal sphere.
VIEW MORE
GOVCON
At Alpha Toro, we honor innovation in defense. Whether in defense technology, aerospace, or government contracts, we understand your unique challenges. We're committed to showcasing your contributions through precise campaigns that resonate with potential partners and government officials. Let us be your ally in navigating the defense contracting landscape, ensuring your mission-critical messages resonate with precision and purpose.
VIEW MORE
FOOD & BEV
Indulge in the artistry of flavor and the delight of culinary experiences with Alpha Toro. We savor the richness of the food and beverage industry, understanding its unique blend of taste, culture, and innovation. From farm to table, we craft mouthwatering campaigns that tantalize taste buds and captivate audiences. Our team navigates the evolving landscape of culinary trends, packaging, and consumer preferences to create strategies that bring your brand to the forefront of this vibrant and competitive market. Let us be your secret ingredient in concocting campaigns that stir emotions, cultivate cravings, and leave a lasting imprint on the palates of your audience.
VIEW MORE
SPACE
INDUSTRY
Our team at Alpha Toro navigates the vast cosmos of marketing strategies to launch your brand into new frontiers. Just as space exploration pushes the boundaries of human knowledge, we propel your business to reach unprecedented heights. From celestial branding to intergalactic campaigns, we harness the power of the space industry's wonder and possibility to elevate your brand to the moon & back.
VIEW MORE
MEDICAL
At Alpha Toro, we specialize in crafting dynamic marketing strategies for the healthcare industry. From highlighting cutting-edge technology to engaging content, we amplify your brand's voice to resonate with both professionals and patients. Let us partner with you to navigate the complexities of the medical landscape, ensuring your innovations reach those who need them most, shaping a healthier future for all.
VIEW MORE
EVENTS
Welcome to Alpha Toro where we craft unforgettable experiences that leave lasting impressions. From corporate galas to community festivals, our expert team excels in creating captivating campaigns that spark anticipation and engagement. Let us orchestrate your success by turning your events into memorable stories that captivate and resonate long after the final curtain call.
VIEW MORE
OTHER INDUSTRIES
Welcome to our agency, where small business dreams take center stage. We understand the heartbeat of entrepreneurship and the power of small businesses in driving innovation and shaping communities. Our team is dedicated to empowering these ventures with tailored marketing strategies that punch above their weight. Whether you're a boutique store, a local eatery, or a burgeoning startup, we're passionate about amplifying your unique story. From targeted digital campaigns to branding that speaks directly to your audience, we're here to help your business flourish. Let us be your partner in navigating the ever-evolving marketing landscape, providing the tools and strategies you need to stand out, thrive, and make a big impact in your corner of the world.
VIEW MORE
Testimonials
Cullum Homes
Power Brands
Torch Technologies
HAPPI Health
Next Slide
Previous Slide
Rod Cullum
Founder/President
In our first two years with Alpha Toro our payback is truly measurable and at minimum our company has doubled in size. Alpha Toro stayed true to what we felt our brand was and did not try to change us or force us into a different brand. They have embraced our vision and helped us communicate that vision much better than we could do on our own. I'd encourage anyone to have Alpha Toro look at your website and website message, technical SEO, and total brand plan. It has been one of the best values we've received with any of our marketing investments over the years.
Deepen Patel
CFO/Partner
We choose to continue working with Alpha Toro due to their professionalism, creativity, and the standard of process they have established. From naming and fully branding our restaurants, digital and tangible menus, van wraps, packaging, advertising designs, websites, building design, marketing, and overall strategy of new and old restaurants; Alpha Toro stands unrivaled.
Amanda Clark
Chief Of Staff
Alpha Toro is vested in Torch Technologies' success.
They partnered with our team to create a reliable, collaborative approach during the redesign of two Torch websites. As a result, our website traffic has increased over 70% due to the implemented designs. Thank you Alpha Toro!
Al-Nisa Murray
Help Systems Analyst
Alpha Toro is an excellent company to work with from the initial contact to the execution of our organization's new website! Alpha Toro has a team full of visionaries and executers. They successfully updated our website with more a
modern web design
which has been instrumental in our marketing efforts to grow our patient base. We at HAPPI Health highly recommend Alpha Toro for all your web design, branding, and marketing needs!

--- Page: https://torchtechnologies.com/careers/military-transition/ ---

I am so PROUD that Torch has allowed military members of all ranks with varied experience, capabilities, and TALENT to continue to use their SKILLS in support of our Nation's defense!
Gino P., Lt Col, USMC Ret.
Senior Manager
Hawaii
When you join Torch as an EMPLOYEE-OWNER, you become part of the fabric of the company, and those who have SERVED their COUNTRY are especially warmly welcomed.
Craig F., Major, USAF Ret. Group Leader
Systems Engineer
Florida
After 33 years in the Air Force, I instantly felt VALUED as an individual; I knew other Torch team members maintain a high standard and have FUN while doing it!  This type of CAMARADERIE is what makes Torch a family, not just a job!
Beth H., MSgt, Air National Guard Retired
Directorate Manager
Massachusetts
Torch gave me a CHANCE to work on challenging projects where I could use my skills from the military and gain NECESSARY civilian EXPERIENCE along the way.
Alex A., MAJ, US Army Reserve
Exercise Planner
Colorado
As an Industry leader that is DEVOTED to supporting the warfighter, Torch provided me with a challenging and REWARDING opportunity to develop both personally and PROFESSIONALLY during my military transition.
Joseph P., SMSgt, USAF
Military Corporate Fellow
Alabama
Torch has provided me with the OPPORTUNITY to continue my skills.  I VALUE the work we do in support of the DOD.
Deborah H., Veteran, US Army
Senior Cybersecurity Analyst
Alabama
I am grateful that Torch gave me the OPPORTUNITY to utilize and GAIN SKILLS to expand my military and civilian career to support and continue to SERVE.
Scott S., SSF, Army National Guard Retired
Information and Knowledge Manager
Colorado
While embedded at the Combatant Command level, and now at Navy, I am very THANKFUL Torch has leaders that listen and our company INVESTS in my training to improve how we SUPPORT the DOD Mission.
Arlana D., Veteran, USAF
Senior Knowledge Management Analyst
Hawaii
As a 26-year military veteran, it was a WELCOMED surprise to see that Torch Technologies encompasses a MISSION-FIRST, family-always CULTURE.
Emmanuel T., SMSgt, USAF
Mission Area Planner
Florida
Torch employee-owners have EXPONENTIALLY accelerated my professional growth during my transition from service member to civilian, creating a DEVELOPMENTAL environment to work alongside EXCEPTIONAL industry leaders and technical experts.
Weston L., CPT, US ARMY
Military Corporate Fellow
Alabama
Torch Made me FEEL so welcome even during the interview phase.  I'm so proud and GRATEFUL to be a part of a company that GENUINELY cares about their employees.
Nicole B., SSG, USAF
Foreign Military Sales Program Manager
Massachusetts
Discover Your Pathway with Torch
Transitioning from military life is a monumental change. Torch wants to make the transition a rewarding and exciting experience. Torch participates in the DoD Skillbridge program and the US Chamber’s Hiring Our Heroes fellowship program to allow transitioning military the opportunity to work within our facilities, experience our culture, and explore what its like to be a Torch employee-owner.
TRANSITIONING FROM MILITARY WORKLIFE
Paying It Forward
"Transitioning from military to civilian life is more than a change in uniform, it represents a shift to a new chapter. At Torch Technologies, we deeply understand this transition. We provide opportunities that maintain the crucial task of supporting the Warfighter, offering another path to continue this service for those who have dedicated their lives to serving our nation. Our involvement goes beyond our military support, as we actively contribute to enhancing our local communities. At Torch, it's not just about employment; it's about continuing a mission of service and impact. We believe the skills you've developed in the military are not only appreciated but essential. Join us, where your journey in uniform evolves into a meaningful civilian role. Together, we don't just uphold the values of freedom, but also foster a rewarding transition into post-military life."  David Cook | USA Retired Soldier,  Still Serving at Torch Technologies
TORCH WORKFORCE = 42% VETERAN, GUARD, OR RESERVIST
Torch Workforce
US military members in the Guard or Reserve are supported at Torch. Employer Support of the Guard and Reserve with Military orders receive:
Military leave 10 days
Military leave 10 days with differential pay (annually)
Events
April 30, 2025
Michigan Career Expo
Torch will be attending the Michigan Career Expo on April 30 from 9 a.m. - 3 p.m. at the Radisson Hotel…
August 05, 2025
Space & Missile Defense (SMD) Symposium
August 5-7, 2025 | Von Braun Center - Huntsville, AL  | Booth #125
August 12, 2025
Ground Vehicle Systems Engineering & Technology Symposium (GVSETS)
August 12-14, 2025 | Novi, MI   | Booth #327
November 17, 2025
AAAA Cribbins Readiness Conference
November 17-19, 2025 | Huntsville, AL | Booth #1315
Apply Now
Torch maintains an excellent work environment that includes competitive compensation, outstanding benefits, and rewarding work assignments with major opportunities for advancement. This could be your opportunity to join a growing, fast-paced company that is setting standards for superior technical services. To be considered for employment opportunities, you must complete an online application.
JOIN OUR TEAM
All qualified applicants will receive consideration for employment without regard to race, color, religion, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, national origin, age, genetic information, citizenship, ancestry, marital status, protected veteran status, disability status or any other status protected by federal, state, or local law. Torch Technologies, Inc. participates in E-Verify.
If you are a qualified individual with a disability or a disabled veteran, you have the right to request a reasonable accommodation if you are unable or limited in your ability to use or access
https://torchtechnologies.hua.hrsmart.com/ats
as a result of your disability. You can request reasonable accommodations by sending an email to
HR@torchtechnologies.com
. Thank you for your interest in Torch Technologies.
E-Verify
EEO is Law
Right to Work
Torch EEO Statement

--- Page: https://torchtechnologies.com/company/company-profile/golf-tournament/ ---

TORCH GOLFS
+
REGISTER. PLAY. IMPACT.
Torch Golfs
Through Torch's annual golf tournament benefiting Village of Promise, we raise money to provide education, health, enrichment programs and family support services. The annual event includes 200 golfers from multiple companies and organizations.
Through the combined generosity of our incredible sponsors, golfers, volunteers, Torch’s employee-owners and Board of Directors, as well as the employee-owners and Board of Directors of our sister and parent companies Freedom Real Estate and Starfish Holdings, we were able to present the Village of Promise with a $105,000 donation this year!
This donation, made possible by all who gave of their time and/or resources, will support an invaluable nonprofit organization in their mission to break the cycle of poverty, one family at a time.
Benefitting Village of Promise
MARK YOUR CALENDARS!
DATE:
September 15th, 2023
LOCATION:
Robert Trent Jones Golf Course, Hampton Cove
TIME:
Registration & Breakfast at 7:30 A.M. Shotgun Start at 8:30 A.M.
FORMAT:
4 Person Scramble - Duffers Welcome!
REGISTRATION FEE:
$150 per Player or $600 per Team
REGISTRATION FOR TORCH, GOVERNMENT, MILITARY:
$125 per Player or $500 per Team
PRIZES: TBD
*All Proceeds go to Village of Promise