

--- Page: https://torchhelps.org/spring-2021-grant-recipients/ ---

Spring 2021 Grant Recipients
Tuesday, May 18, 2021
On May 18th, we were proud to be able to virtually present three nonprofit organizations with $10,000 checks as the recipients of our 2021 first quarter large grants!
These grant recipients were selected by our Torch Helps contributors and the donations were presented on Zoom. We are honored that our employee-owners are able to support these incredible nonprofit organizations as they work in our communities during this especially challenging time! Thank you for all that you do for the communities that we call home!
Congratulations to our large grant winners:
Burritt on the Mountain
,
First Stop, Inc.,
and
Free Dental Clinic
!

--- Page: https://torchhelps.org/summer-2021-grant-winners/ ---

Summer 2021 Grant Winners
Thursday, July 29, 2021
The
Downtown Rescue Mission
,
National Children’s Advocacy Center
,
Salvation Army of Huntsville/Madison County
,
Service Dogs Alabama
, and
Village of Promise
were the winners of our five $10,000 large grants for this quarter!
The grant presentation for the nonprofit organizations was held with Torch employee-owners in the Freedom Center on July 29th.
NCAC
Downtown Mission
Salvation Army
Service Dogs Alabama
Village of Promise

--- Page: https://torchhelps.org/fall-2020-grant-recipients/ ---

Fall 2020 Grant Recipients
Friday, October 23, 2020
On October 23rd, we were proud to be able to virtually present four nonprofit organizations with $10,000 checks as the recipients of our 2020 third quarter large grants!
These grant recipients were selected by our Torch Helps contributors and the grant presentation was held virtually to allow us to safely hear from all our recipients despite geographic and COVID-19 constraints. We are grateful that our employee-owners choose to continue to support these amazing nonprofit organizations’ work in our communities, especially during this challenging time when many nonprofit organizations are struggling! Thank you for all that you do for the communities that we call home!
Congratulations to our third quarter large grant winners:
Children in Crisis, Inc. Florida
,
Colorado Springs Food Rescue
,
Corpus Christi Metro Ministries
, and
Mission Of Mercy – Texas
!

--- Page: https://torchhelps.org/winter-2021-grant-winners/ ---

Winter 2021 Grant Winners
Wednesday, January 26, 2022
On January 26th, we were proud to be able to virtually present four nonprofit organizations with $10,000 checks as the recipients of our 2021 fourth quarter large grants!
These grant recipients were selected by our Torch Helps contributors and the donations were presented on Zoom. We are proud that our employee-owners are able to support these amazing nonprofit organizations as they tirelessly work to support the communities that our employee-owners call home!
Congratulations to the winners of our four $10,000 large grants for this quarter,
Food Bank of North Alabama
,
Habitat for Humanity of Madison County
,
Safe Passage
, and
Wheels 4 Working
!

--- Page: https://torchhelps.org/winter-2020-grant-recipients/ ---

Winter 2020 Grant Recipients
Friday, February 12, 2021
On February 12th, we were proud to be able to virtually present three nonprofit organizations with $10,000 checks as the recipients of our 2021 first quarter large grants!
These grant recipients were selected by our Torch Helps contributors and the grant presentation was held virtually to allow us to safely hear from all our recipients despite geographic and COVID-19 constraints. We are grateful that our employee-owners choose to continue to support these amazing nonprofit organizations’ work in our communities, especially during this challenging time when many nonprofit organizations are struggling! Thank you for all that you do for the communities that we call home!
Congratulations to our fourth quarter large grant winners:
Food for Others
in Fairfax, VA,
Huntsville Inner City Learning Center
, and
Huntsville TN Valley AMBUCS
!

--- Page: https://torchhelps.org/torch-helps-q3-and-q4-2024-grants-at-giving-tuesday/ ---

Torch Helps Q3 & Q4 2024 Grants at Giving Tuesday
Wednesday, January 01, 2025
Torch Helps, Inc. is a 501(c)3 non-profit corporation established and administered by the employee-owners of Torch Technologies and its affiliated companies. On December 3, 2024, Torch Helps announced the Q4 2024 Large Grant Awardees as part of the Community Foundation of Greater Huntsville’s Giving Tuesday event. Each grant recipient was chosen based on a vote of the Torch Technologies’ employee-owners and a detailed grant application vetting process. Each organization will receive a $10,000 grant to be used as outlined by their grant application.
“We congratulate each of the grant recipients recognized,” said Torch Helps President Allison M. Rhen. “These organizations are the unsung heroes of our communities – those meeting the needs of some of our most vulnerable citizens. It is a privilege to support their efforts.” populations.
Q4 Grant Recipients
Morgan County Child Advocacy Center
Facility Location: Decatur, AL
The mission of the Morgan County CAC is to provide help and healing to children. Our vision is that no child who has experienced abuse will have to suffer in silence. The grant funds will assist the Morgan County Child Advocacy Center in the development of an on-site forensic medical exam room. For the past 20 years, the majority of Morgan County victims have traveled to Huntsville for medical exams related to sexual and physical abuse. The support provided by Torch Helps will help provide essential medical equipment needed to deliver comprehensive care to children In Morgan County, ensuring that victims of all ages have access to crucial victim-centered medical care in their home county.
Still Serving Veterans
Facility Location: Huntsville, AL
The mission of Still Serving Veterans is to serve and honor Veterans and their families by empowering them to build meaningful lives through connections to fulfilling careers, benefits, and services; and to proactively strengthen Veteran communities through leadership and collaboration. The Torch Helps grant will be used to support Veterans and their families who are dealing with a financial crisis due to a death, job loss, or illness. Still Serving Veterans pays utility bills and/or rent and provides grocery store gift cards. It will also pay the required deposits to get a home Veteran into HUD VASH housing.
Brigid's Path
Facility Location:
Kettering, OH
The mission of Brigid's Path is to improve the health of newborn babies and mothers impacted by addiction. It offers grace for the past, support for the present, and hope for the future. The Torch Helps grant will be allocated to provide essential baby items for the infants it serves.
Easterseals Camp ASCCA
Facility Location:
Montgomery, AL
The mission of Easterseals Camp ASCCA is to provide camping experiences for children and adults with disabilities. Camp ASCCA is open year-round. Within its barrier-free environment, Camp ASCCA offers 230 wooded acres on the shores of beautiful Lake Martin in Alabama. Grant funds will be used to provide camperships to children and adults with disabilities for summer camp.
Q3 Grant Recipients
HEALS, Inc.
Facility Location: Huntsville, AL
Mission Statement – HEALS, Inc. provides school-based medical care to children ages birth to 19 living in poverty in Huntsville/Madison County Alabama. The requested funds would cover a portion of our operational expenses for five medical clinics. We expect to improve health outcomes and health education for children living in poverty in Huntsville/Madison County, Alabama.
Intended Grant Use – This grant will fund the operational costs of our medical clinics and support uncompensated care. In 2023, HEALS delivered 3,120 medical visits, 1,800 vaccinations, 1,916 dental visits, 336 optometry visits, and provided 257 pairs of glasses. From July 2023 to June 2024, $136,000 worth of visits were for uninsured patients for which HEALS receives no reimbursement. Our clinics function as a medical home, reducing ER wait times and helping children return to school more quickly.
Downtown Rescue Mission
Facility Location: Huntsville, AL
Mission Statement – Downtown Rescue Mission (DRM) earnestly serves the community through its mission of providing HELP and HOPE-help to overcome hunger, homelessness, addiction, and abuse-and eternal hope that can only be found in Jesus Christ and is fully committed to caring for everyone in need regardless of their personal faith preference. DRM also serves as a lighthouse in the community for the poor, homeless, and destitute in order to meet their physical and spiritual needs. Since 1975, DRM lives out its mission by serving Huntsville and surrounding communities through a vast array of programs and services to transform lives.
Intended Grant Use – Downtown Rescue Mission (DRM) requests funding for the expansion of its Medical Wing and Community Health Clinic. This successful and growing community health initiative encompasses current community needs while removing barriers for participants. Expansion includes costs associated with medical equipment as well as lab and procedural costs associated with each patient's treatment. The influx of clients requiring medical services translates to current clinic capacity being strained and clinic staff triaging patients according to their individual health needs. The primary goal of this expansion is to improve the overall health of all participants thereby improving the health of the community.
Special Kids Special Families
Facility Location: Colorado Springs, CO
Mission Statement – To promote, strengthen, and support individuals with disabilities, their families and caregivers.
Intended Grant Use – •We respectfully request funds for our Zach's Place program that serves children with high developmental, physical, behavioral, and medical needs. Care is offered on a sliding fee scale to ensure that families who need help the most can receive it (89% of client families have low income). The purpose of this request is to allow for the inclusion of children from low-income backgrounds who cannot afford the cost of services at Zach's Place, the ONLY licensed care center of our kind providing services to children ages 2.5 to 18 who have developmental disabilities and other special needs.
The Arc of Madison County
Facility Location: Huntsville, AL
Mission Statement – Give loving care and guidance to those with intellectual disabilities as they find their place in the world at large.
Intended Grant Use – Purchase items for early intervention program serving children 0-3 years of age. Items are inexpensive therapy related items given to low-income families and more expensive items to be loaned to all income levels. Such as nuk brushes, first stage spoons, adaptive cups, tri-chews, weighted blankets, FireFly GoTo chairs, LadyBug Corner chairs, support systems for gait training, four pelvic support systems.

--- Page: https://torchhelps.org/torch-helps-announces-q1-and-q2-2024-grant-recipients/ ---

Torch Helps Announces Q1 & Q2 2024 Grant Recipients
Friday, July 19, 2024
Torch Helps, a non-profit corporation established and administered by the employee-owners of Torch Technologies and its affiliated companies, today announced grant recipients for the first two quarters of 2024. Each of the grant recipients was chosen based on a vote of the employee owners following a detailed grant application and vetting process. Each of the organizations will receive a $10,000 grant to use as outlined by their grant application.
“We congratulate each of the grant recipients recognized today. They are the unsung heroes of our communities – those standing in the gap meeting the needs of some of our most vulnerable citizens. It is a privilege to support their efforts,” said Allison Rhen, President, Torch Helps.
Q1 Grant Recipients
The Caring Link
Huntsville, Alabama
The Caring Link works to ensure that students who lack basic needs can succeed and grow alongside their peers by establishing in-school Care Closets to supply essential items. When students feel prepared for the day–when they feel truly cared for –they can become the best version of themselves. The $10,000 Torch Helps grant will establish a Care Closet at Sonnie Hereford Elementary, providing new clothing, toiletries, school supplies, and food to students in need.
Ithaka Housing
Colorado Springs, Colorado
Ithaka houses some of the city’s most vulnerable residents, supporting them on their journey from homelessness toward stability and growth. The $10,000 Torch Helps grant will assist with the needs of the Ithaka’s Senior Program. This program serves homeless or low-income seniors and disabled adults in Colorado Springs looking to move toward improved health and quality of life, connecting to resources, and long-term housing stability. It provides intensive case management and transitional housing to help seniors connect with healthcare resources, qualify for benefits, and pursue permanent housing options that will meet their needs in the future.
Locker #505
Albuquerque, New Mexico
The mission of Locker #505 is to provide appropriate school clothing to K-12 greater Albuquerque Metro students in need. The clothing bank has established a student-focused facility where children can try on and choose outfits that they feel good about wearing. Having appropriate school clothing allows children to concentrate on their schoolwork, not their clothing. It also keeps children, who might not go to class because of their clothes, in school. Last semester, Locker #505 served more than 2,700 students, allowing them to attend school in comfort and with dignity while focusing on their education. The $10,000 Torch Helps grant will be used to purchase new shoes and underwear for K-12 students in need in a four-county region.
Village of Promise
Huntsville, Alabama
The mission of Village of Promise is empowering families to break the cycle of poverty. Village of Promise uses a targeted multigenerational approach that provides age-based and need-related programming that enables families to conquer challenges, achieve dreams, and contribute to their community. The $10,000 Torch Helps grant will be used to reduce food insecurity and instill healthy eating habits while serving as a foundation for healthy choices in the lives of its clients.
Q2 2024 Recipients
A Bed 4 Me
Valparaiso, Florida
A Bed 4 Me has a mission to ensure that children have a place of their own to sleep each night. They understand the critical role of sleep in a child’s development, health, academic performance, and self-esteem. A Bed 4 Me provides each child a twin size bed frame, twin size mattress, sheet set, comforter and pillow. Funds from the Torch Helps $10,000 grant will be used to purchase a bed frame and mattress for 70 children in Okaloosa County.
Children in Crisis
Ft. Walton Beach, Florida
Children in Crisis is a local, non-profit charity committed to “Providing Homes - Keeping Brothers and Sisters Together." The Torch Helps $10,000 grant will be used to provide food, utilities, and clothing for The Children’s Neighborhood.
Lawton Mobile Meals
Lawton, Oklahoma
The sole mission of Lawton Mobile Meals is to counteract malnutrition among the elderly and/or disabled homebound persons by delivering one nutritious meal a day, five days per week, to qualified recipients. The $10,000 Torch Helps grant will be used to provide over 2,200 meals to qualified recipients.
Children’s Advocacy Center of the Coastal Bend
Corpus Christi, Texas
The organization’s mission statement is to minimize the trauma to abused children and their families by uniting the efforts of public agencies and enlisting the support of the community, and to protect, restore, and transform the lives and futures of these children and their families. The Torch Helps Grant will be used to administer a support group for physically and sexually abused teens. This group will provide emotional support and lessen trauma to teenagers who have been the victims of severe physical and sexual abuse and sex trafficking.
About the Torch Helps
Torch Helps, Inc., is a non-profit corporation with the mission to carry the torch for others in our communities by providing financial support to non-profit organizations that aid individuals and families who lack access to basic health and human services, or who require assistance to meet their fundamental needs for food, clothing, shelter, medical care, mental health, safety and enrichment opportunities for the underserved, as well as non-profits that provide benefits to underserved populations. For more information, including grant guidelines and applications, visit torchhelps.org.
Village of Promise
The Caring Link
Children in Crisis

--- Page: https://torchhelps.org/spring-2022-grant-winners/ ---

Spring 2022 Grant Winners
Tuesday, April 26, 2022
Congratulations to Special Kids Special Families in Colorado Springs, Woolley Institute for Spoken-Language Education (WISE) in Birmingham,AL, Mt. Carmel Veterans Service Center in Colorado Springs, and Agape of North Alabama! Thank you for all you do for your community!

--- Page: https://torchhelps.org/spring-2023-grant-recipients/ ---

Spring 2023 Grant Recipients
Monday, May 01, 2023
Congratulations to our Q1 Grant Recipients! The recipients include Crisis Aid for Littles and Moms of Niceville, Florida, Corpus Christis Hoep House of Corpus Christi, Texas, Free 2 Teach, Huntsville, Alabama, and The Care Facility of Huntsville, Alabama.

--- Page: https://torchhelps.org/fall-2021-grant-winners/ ---

Fall 2021 Grant Winners
Friday, November 05, 2021
On November 4th, we were proud to be able to virtually present three nonprofit organizations with $10,000 checks as the recipients of our 2021 third quarter large grants!
These grant recipients were selected by our Torch Helps contributors and the donations were presented on Zoom. We are honored that our employee-owners are able to support these amazing nonprofit organizations in their invaluable services within the communities that we call home!
Congratulations to the winners of our three $10,000 large grants for this quarter,
A Bed 4 Me Foundation
,
Kids to Love
, and
Westside CARES
!