

--- Page: https://torchhelps.org/faq/ ---

Frequently Asked Questions
Scam Alert
Will Torch or TorchHelps ever contact me?
It has come to our attention that the TorchHelps name has been fraudulently used by third parties, often communicating via phone or through “fake” websites in an attempt to obtain personal or financial information.

Please note that TorchHelps only provides grants to approved 501(c)3 charitable organizations through the official grant application process. TorchHelps will never ask an individual for personal or financial information or money in exchange for a grant opportunity. 

Anyone receiving a fraudulent call or message from a third party claiming to be TorchHelps should report the incident to the appropriate law enforcement agency for your area.
Common Questions from Grant Applicants
Can charities apply for a grant without an employee nomination?
Yes
Do I need to provide all the information requested on the grant application form?
Yes. Incomplete packages are routinely rejected by our Review Committee. Torch Helps will notify charities with incomplete packages and hold the package until all requirements are met.
What is the status of our grant application?
The Review Committee may request clarification from a charity for a piece of information on their grant application. The charities that fail the Review Committee process are only notified if they submit a stamped, self-addressed envelope. The following statement is listed on page 5 of the grant application:
"Optional: Please provide a stamped, self-addressed envelope if you wish to receive notification of the results of the review of your application and screening for eligibility."
What is the small grant program?
Charities with small needs must be nominated by a Torch Technologies employee.  Torch employees must fill out and submit the Small Grant Application form that is available on the Torch employee portal.
Common Questions from Torch Technologies Employees
Are employee contributions tax deductible?
Yes. All contributions to Torch Helps are tax deductible. For most employees who allow payroll deductions, the donations will show up on pay stubs and on your W-2 form under a "Charity" heading.
How do I start contributing?
The contribution form is located on the Torch Intranet under Documents >> Payroll (link requires logging into our Intranet site)
Where are the charities that receive grants?
We have given grants throughout Huntsville/Madison County, AL, Eglin, FL, Corpus Christi, TX, and Colorado Springs, CO. There are more than 85 charities that have received our quarterly grants. Many of these organizations serve surrounding counties. For a complete list of the past grant winners, see the
Grant Winners
page.
How do I nominate a local charity?
Employees who contribute to Torch Helps may nominate charities by contacting them directly and directing them to our
Grant Application
page. For Small or Special grants, employees must fill out and submit the Small Grant Application form. Specifically read the eligibility information to see if the charity qualifies for our grant programs. Additionally, the nominee's mission and proposed use of the grant money MUST align with the Torch Helps Mission: 
Torch Helps, Inc., is a non-profit corporation with the mission to carry the torch for others in our communities by providing financial support to non-profit organizations that aid individuals and families who lack access to basic health and human services, or who require assistance to meet their fundamental needs for food, clothing, shelter, medical care, mental health, safety and enrichment opportunities for the underserved, as well as non-profits that provide benefits to underserved populations.

--- Page: https://torchhelps.org/grant-information/ ---

Grant Information
Torch Helps awards $10,000 grants to local charities who are making a difference in our communities. Charities must be nonprofit 501(c)(3) organizations that provide services to our local communities. See the grant application for additional qualification requirements. A Torch Helps grant application form must be completed in full before a charity can be included in the vote.
Grant Application .pdf
Grant Application .word
Any application received after COB on the application deadline dates will be held and considered for the following quarterly grants.
2025 Grant Application Dates:
Q1: February 21, 2025
Q2: May 23, 2025
Q3: August 1, 2025
Q4: October 24, 2025
SCAM ALERT
It has come to our attention that the TorchHelps name has been fraudulently used by third parties, often communicating via phone or through “fake” websites in an attempt to obtain personal or financial information.
Please note that TorchHelps only provides grants to approved 501(c)3 charitable organizations through the official grant application process.
TorchHelps will
never
ask an individual for personal or financial information or money in exchange for a grant opportunity.
Anyone receiving a fraudulent call or message from a third party claiming to be TorchHelps should report the incident to the appropriate law enforcement agency for your area.
SCAM ALERT
ELIGIBILITY
Eligibility requirements
(include but are not limited to the following:)
Must be a nonprofit organization recognized under section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code and contributions shall be deductible by donors under section 170 of the Internal Revenue Code. Must be a community-based organization operating in the area of Torch Technologies Employee’s Residence.  Please visit
Torch locations
for a full listing.  Services rendered by agency must be open to all members of the community regardless of race, religion, political affiliation, ability to pay or background. Intended use of funds cannot be used for salary, wages, stipends or paying for training of Agency employees or volunteers.  Agencies intended use of Torch Helps grant monies must be in line with Torch Helps Mission: To carry the Torch for others in our communities by providing financial support to nonprofit organizations designed to aid individuals and families who are financially disadvantaged, lack access to basic health and human services, or are otherwise disadvantaged and require the assistance of others to meet their basic needs for food, clothing, shelter, medical care and other fundamental needs. 100% of Torch Helps grant monies must be used in area of Torch Employee’s residence. Agency must meet criteria set forth by Better Business Bureau Wise Giving Alliance Standards for Charity Accountability (see www.bbb.org for details of standards).
INELIGIBILITY
Ineligibility
Organizations are ineligible for $10,000 grants if any of the following apply:
Nonprofit without a current 501(c)(3) status.
Are an individual. Is a private foundation.
Public or Private Educational Institution to include nonprofit.
Tax-Supported institutions.
Social Organizations or Committees Religious organizations without secular community designation (i.e. must provide services to people regardless of their religious beliefs. Example: A food bank that is a separate 501(c)(3) organization from a church that provides food to anyone who qualifies for services, regardless of religious belief.)
Agencies that have received a Torch Helps grant in the past 24 months.
REVIEW PROCESS
Our Review Process
All submitted applications are examined by the Torch Helps Review Committee to determine if the requirements have been met and the charities are qualified and appropriate. The committee may request clarifications and, in some cases, site visits as part of the review process. The Review Committee recommends a list of charities to the Torch Helps Board of Directors. The Board reviews a summary of each application and selects which charities will be presented to our employees for a vote.
OUR VOTE
Our Contributing Employee Vote
All submitted applications are examined by the Torch Helps Review Committee to determine if the requirements have been met and the charities are qualified and appropriate. The committee may request clarifications and, in some cases, site visits as part of the review process. The Review Committee recommends a list of charities to the Torch Helps Board of Directors. The Board reviews a summary of each application and selects which charities will be presented to our employees for a vote.
RESUBMISSION
Resubmissions
To remain in the quarterly voting cycle, eligible charities only need submit a grant application every other quarter, although charities may resubmit at any time as their needs change. After receiving a quarterly grant, the charity is ineligible for two years.
Helpful Tips
Be clear and concise on the Web Page Content Form. That is what most of our contributors will use to make their decision.
Be specific about where and how the money will be used and who will benefit.  A budget or breakdown is helpful in presenting exactly how funds will be allocated.
Explain how the grant meets a real or urgent need in our communities.
Clearly define the purpose of any significant material items you may purchase with the grant.
If you know a Torch Helps contributor, ask them to nominate your charity.
Need Help?
If you have questions about the application, selection process, or need assistance please contact us by email at
torchhelps@torchtechnologies.com
.

--- Page: https://torchhelps.org/ ---

WE ARE
+
TORCH TECHNOLOGIES
Torch Technologies, Inc. is a 100 percent employee-owned business with more than 1100 employee-owners dedicated to quality technical services, competitive costs, and ethical business practices.
About Torch Helps
Torch Technologies
and our employee-owners have been involved in a number of charitable activities such as the Juvenile Diabetes Research Foundation “Walk for a Cure,” Toys for Tots, Walk to Defeat ALS, and sponsoring a youth robotics team. As our company grew, it became apparent that an ad hoc approach to community involvement would be neither effective nor efficient. In the spring of 2005, Torch formed a 501(c)(3) organization named Torch Helps. Our first year goal was to give $20,000 in contributions to local charities from funds raised through payroll deduction, designated gifts, and corporate matching.
We exceeded our goal through a quarterly grant program, providing relief to Hurricane Katrina victims, and replacing a stolen utility trailer for a local Boy Scout troop. Since that first year, we have increased the amount of the quarterly grants and have added a Small Grant program.
Our employees have given back to the community in many ways. We are active in our churches, schools and many volunteer organizations. We are parents, brothers, sisters, friends, mentors, advisors, grandparents, and so much more. We have created a work environment that reinforces the fact that coaching tee-ball is far more important than a management strategy session. After all, what value is it to earn a living if you do not take the time to have a life?
The highest calling in life is to help others. Torch Technologies supports our employees’ charitable efforts by covering all of the administrative costs of Torch Helps. Thus, 100% of the donations to Torch Helps goes to the organizations selected by the employees.
Together Our Resources Can Help!
SCAM ALERT
It has come to our attention that the TorchHelps name has been fraudulently used by third parties, often communicating via phone or through “fake” websites in an attempt to obtain personal or financial information.
Please note that TorchHelps only provides grants to approved 501(c)3 charitable organizations through the official grant application process.
TorchHelps will
never
ask an individual for personal or financial information or money in exchange for a grant opportunity.
Anyone receiving a fraudulent call or message from a third party claiming to be TorchHelps should report the incident to the appropriate law enforcement agency for your area.
SCAM ALERT
OUR MISSION
Torch Helps, Inc., is a non-profit corporation with the mission to carry the torch for others in our communities by providing financial support to non-profit organizations that aid individuals and families who lack access to basic health and human services, or who require assistance to meet their fundamental needs for food, clothing, shelter, medical care, mental health, safety and enrichment opportunities for the underserved, as well as non-profits that provide benefits to underserved populations.
Our Impact
To date, Torch Helps has provided more than $1.3 million in direct grants. When you also consider retailer discounts; federal matching funds; and material and cash donations from our customers, competitors, family, friends, and lawyers, the total estimated economic impact of Torch Helps exceeds this amount. Of course, the real impact is not measured in dollars and cents. It is reflected in the young mother who now has her own home and a dream to start her own business. It is felt by the disabled lady who no longer has to suffer the sweltering heat of a long, dry summer. It is honored by the Boy Scout Troop who decided to give half their new camping gear to a troop that was affected by Hurricane Katrina. We may never see most of the people whose lives have been made a little better by the small amounts that we give every two weeks, but we consider it an honor to support the local charities and their volunteers who do.
Grant Application Deadlines
Feb 21, 2025
Q1
May 23, 2025
Q2
Aug 1, 2025
Q3
Oct 24, 2025
Q4

--- Page: https://torchhelps.org/organization/ ---

Board of Directors
Allison M. Rhen
–
President
Elizabeth Phoumavong
–
VP
Marleea Howze
–
Secretary
Susan Jensen
–
Treasurer
Scott McLeod – Community Outreach Director
Stephen Doud – IT Director
Daniel Leaird
Bruce Lloyd
Representatives:
Cindy Walz
–
Executive at Large
Andrea Beasinger
–
Review Committee Chair
OFFICERS
Officers
Allison M. Rhen,
President
Elizabeth Phoumavong, Vice President
Marleea Howze,
Secretary
Susan Jensen,
Treasurer
REVIEW COMMITTEE
Review Committee
The Review Committee examines all submitted grant applications to ensure the charities are eligible and appropriate for our quarterly grant program.
Andrea Beasinger, Chair
Bill  Mink
Jonathon Bryant
Randall Warren
Scott Hall
Jarrod Johnson
LaJoy Johns
Jill Harris
Carina Rodgers
Lenora Davis

--- Page: https://torchhelps.org/grant-winners/ ---

Grant Winners
Congratulations to our 2024 24th Quarter Grant Recipients:
Morgan County Child Advocacy Center,
Still Serving Veterans,
Brigid's Path, and
Easterseals Camp ASCCA
!
A
B
C
D
E
F
G
H
I
J
K
L
M
N
Q
R
S
T
U
V
W
Y
#
A Bed 4 Me Foundation
AGAPE of North Alabama
Alabama Baptist Children’s Homes
Alabama Goodwill Industries
The ALS Association – Alabama Chapter
AMBUCS, Huntsville Tennessee Valley
American Diabetes Association
American Heart Association
American Legion
American Red Cross
The Arc of Madison County
Army Emergency Relief
AshaKiran
The Arts Council, Inc.
Big Brothers / Big Sisters of North Alabama
Blount Hospitality House
Boy Scout Troop 633
Boys and Girls Club of North Alabama
Burritt on the Mountain
CAJA of Madison County
Care and Share Food Bank
The Care Center
CASA of Madison County
Chappell Karate Basket Brigade
Children in Crisis, Inc.
Children’s Volunteer Health Network, Inc.
Christmas Charities Year Round
Colorado Springs Food Rescue
Community Foundation of Huntsville / Madison County
Community Partnership for Child Development
Community Free Clinic
Community Free Dental Clinic
Corpus Christi Hope House
Corpus Christi Metro Ministries
CPCD (Colorado Community Partnership for Child Development)
Crisis Services of North Alabama
Downtown Rescue Mission
Easterseals Camp ASCCA
Fraternal Order of Police
First Stop, Inc.
Food Bank of North Alabama
Food for Others
Forgotten Felines
Fresh Start for Children and Families
Friends, Inc.
Girls Inc. of Huntsville
Greater Huntsville Humane Society
Habitat for Humanity of Madison County
Harris Home for Children
HEALS, Inc.
Heart of the Valley YMCA
His Way
Ho’ola Na Pua
Hospice Family Care
Hospice of Limestone County
Hospice of Marshall County
Hospice of North Alabama
Huntsville Achievement School
Huntsville Assistance Program
Huntsville Community Drumline
Huntsville Hospital Foundation
Huntsville Inner City Learning Center
Huntsville FOP Lodge
Huntsville Library Foundation
Huntsville-Madison County Senior Center
Inside-Out Ministries
Juvenile Diabetes Research Foundation
Katrina Relief
Kids and Kin Program
Kids to Love Foundation
Limestone County Churches Involved, Inc.
Leadership Huntsville/Madison County
Manna House
Mayo Clinic Department of Development
Mercy Flights
Merrimack Hall
Miracle League of North Alabama
Mission of Mercy- Texas
Morgan County Child Advocacy Center
National Children’s Advocacy Center
New Futures, Inc.
New Hope Children’s Clinic
North Alabama Coalition for the Homeless
Quatina M. Wolaver Foundation of Hope
Rainbow Omega
Rock Urban Outreach Center
Rose of Sharon Soup Kitchen
Russel Hill Cancer Foundation
Safe Passage Children’s Advocacy Center – Colorado
The Salvation Army
Second Chance Deliverance & Restoration Ministries, Inc.
Second Mile Development, Inc.
Still Serving Veterans
Special Kids Special Families
Therapy Partners
Thrive Alabama
United Cerebral Palsy
Valley Arts and Entertainment
Valor Flight
Veterans of North Alabama Services Assistance Program, Inc.
Village of Promise, Inc.
The Volunteer Center of Madison County
The Way
Westside CARES
Wheels 4 Working
YOUTH Friendship Foundation
305 8th Street