

--- Page: https://torchtechnologies.com/news/duplicate-of-torch-makes-washington-technology-top-100-government-contractors-list-for-seventh-consecutive-year/ ---

Torch Makes Washington Technology "Top 100 Government Contractors" List for Eighth Consecutive Year
Tuesday, June 28, 2022
Washington Technology released its annual "Top 100" list today and
Torch Technologies (Torch)
was ranked #60 of the Top 100. The list ranks the largest government contractors by their prime contract dollars in IT, telecommunications, consulting, professional services, engineering, and other technology driven products and services. Torch, a 100% employee-owned business, has made this list for the past eight years
Torch President and CEO John Watson stated, "We are very proud to be recognized once again as one of the largest professional services prime contractors to the Federal Government for the eighth consecutive year. This recognition reflects the confidence placed in our company because of the dedication and work ethic that our employee-owners display in serving our DoD customers."
TAGS:
Awards and Recognition

--- Page: https://torchtechnologies.com/news/torch-celebrates-giving-tuesday-with-baron-critical-weather-foundation/ ---

Torch Celebrates Giving Tuesday with Baron Critical Weather Foundation
Tuesday, November 28, 2023
We extend our
#GivingTuesday
festivities by proudly sponsoring the Evolution of Weather Satellite technology at the
Baron Critical Weather Institute
in Huntsville!
The Baron Critical Weather Institute is a non-profit, 501 (c)(3) organization founded in Alabama with the mission to provide world-class instrumentation in support of Public Safety, Educational Outreach, and Economic Development.
Learn more: https://www.baroninstitute.com/
TAGS:

--- Page: https://torchtechnologies.com/news/south-huntsville-companies-host-private-topping-out-ceremony-for-new-multi-tenant-facility/ ---

South Huntsville Companies Host Private Topping Out Ceremony for New Multi-Tenant Facility
Friday, November 20, 2020
Placement of the final beam, signed by employees of Invariant, Freedom, and Torch
Construction is progressing on the new 4040 Chris Drive multi-tenant facility, and to celebrate the placement of the final beam, Freedom Real Estate and Capital, Invariant Corporation, and Torch Technologies hosted a Steel Topping Out ceremony on Friday, November 20, 2020 at 11:00 AM. In building construction, topping out is a builders' rite traditionally held when the last beam is placed atop a structure during its construction. Due to COVID restrictions, this event was held privately.
The event began with a welcome from Huntsville Madison County Chamber CEO Chip Cherry and Huntsville Mayor Tommy Battle. Next, we heard from property developer Freedom Real Estate & Capital CEO, Bill Roark, as well as from representatives of the tenants of the new facility, Invariant Corporation Director of Advanced Technology, John Montgomery, and Torch Technologies Senior Director, Brady Porter. Turner Construction's Project Executive Brandon Tucker provided ceremony history, and Turner raised the final beam atop the structure.
"Congratulations to our design and construction partners for keeping the project on schedule and moving forward safely during COVID," said Freedom Real Estate & Capital's Director of Capital Projects, Lee Holland. The design is led by Arcspace Studio and construction is led by Turner Construction Company. The project has achieved 25,000 work hours to date with no lost time accidents or injuries.
The 4040 Chris Drive Development is a multi-tenant building that will house up to 92,000 square feet and will feature a mix of office, research and development labs, light manufacturing, assembly, and integration space along with a high bay. The new mixed-use facility in South Huntsville has a completion date of early summer 2021.
TAGS:
Growth

--- Page: https://torchtechnologies.com/news/torch-helps-announces-q1-and-q2-2024-grant-recipients/ ---

Torch Helps Announces Q1 & Q2 2024 Grant Recipients
Friday, July 19, 2024
Torch Helps, a non-profit corporation established and administered by the employee-owners of Torch Technologies and its affiliated companies, today announced grant recipients for the first two quarters of 2024. Each of the grant recipients was chosen based on a vote of the employee owners following a detailed grant application and vetting process. Each of the organizations will receive a $10,000 grant to use as outlined by their grant application.
“We congratulate each of the grant recipients recognized today. They are the unsung heroes of our communities – those standing in the gap meeting the needs of some of our most vulnerable citizens. It is a privilege to support their efforts,” said Allison Rhen, President, Torch Helps.
Q1 Grant Recipients
The Caring Link
Huntsville, Alabama
The Caring Link works to ensure that students who lack basic needs can succeed and grow alongside their peers by establishing in-school Care Closets to supply essential items. When students feel prepared for the day–when they feel truly cared for –they can become the best version of themselves. The $10,000 Torch Helps grant will establish a Care Closet at Sonnie Hereford Elementary, providing new clothing, toiletries, school supplies, and food to students in need.
Ithaka Housing
Colorado Springs, Colorado
Ithaka houses some of the city’s most vulnerable residents, supporting them on their journey from homelessness toward stability and growth. The $10,000 Torch Helps grant will assist with the needs of the Ithaka’s Senior Program. This program serves homeless or low-income seniors and disabled adults in Colorado Springs looking to move toward improved health and quality of life, connecting to resources, and long-term housing stability. It provides intensive case management and transitional housing to help seniors connect with healthcare resources, qualify for benefits, and pursue permanent housing options that will meet their needs in the future.
Locker#505
Albuquerque, New Mexico
The mission of Locker #505 is to provide appropriate school clothing to K-12 greater Albuquerque Metro students in need. The clothing bank has established a student-focused facility where children can try on and choose outfits that they feel good about wearing. Having appropriate school clothing allows children to concentrate on their schoolwork, not their clothing. It also keeps children, who might not go to class because of their clothes, in school. Last semester, Locker #505 served more than 2,700 students, allowing them to attend school in comfort and with dignity while focusing on their education. The $10,000 Torch Helps grant will be used to purchase new shoes and underwear for K-12 students in need in a four-county region.
Village of Promise
Huntsville, Alabama
The mission of Village of Promise is empowering families to break the cycle of poverty. Village of Promise uses a targeted multigenerational approach that provides age-based and need-related programming that enables families to conquer challenges, achieve dreams, and contribute to their community. The $10,000 Torch Helps grant will be used to reduce food insecurity and instill healthy eating habits while serving as a foundation for healthy choices in the lives of its clients.
Q2 2024 Recipients
A Bed 4 Me
Valparaiso, Florida
A Bed 4 Me has a mission to ensure that children have a place of their own to sleep each night. They understand the critical role of sleep in a child’s development, health, academic performance, and self-esteem. A Bed 4 Me provides each child a twin size bed frame, twin size mattress, sheet set, comforter and pillow. Funds from the Torch Helps $10,000 grant will be used to purchase a bed frame and mattress for 70 children in Okaloosa County.
Children in Crisis
Ft. Walton Beach, Florida
Children in Crisis is a local, non-profit charity committed to “Providing Homes - Keeping Brothers and Sisters Together." The Torch Helps $10,000 grant will be used to provide food, utilities, and clothing for The Children’s Neighborhood.
Lawton Mobile Meals
Lawton, Oklahoma
The sole mission of Lawton Mobile Meals is to counteract malnutrition among the elderly and/or disabled homebound persons by delivering one nutritious meal a day, five days per week, to qualified recipients. The $10,000 Torch Helps grant will be used to provide over 2,200 meals to qualified recipients.
Children’s Advocacy Center of the Coastal Bend
Corpus Christi, Texas
The organization’s mission statement is to minimize the trauma to abused children and their families by uniting the efforts of public agencies and enlisting the support of the community, and to protect, restore, and transform the lives and futures of these children and their families. The Torch Helps Grant will be used to administer a support group for physically and sexually abused teens. This group will provide emotional support and lessen trauma to teenagers who have been the victims of severe physical and sexual abuse and sex trafficking.
About the Torch Helps
Torch Helps, Inc., is a non-profit corporation with the mission to carry the torch for others in our communities by providing financial support to non-profit organizations that aid individuals and families who lack access to basic health and human services, or who require assistance to meet their fundamental needs for food, clothing, shelter, medical care, mental health, safety and enrichment opportunities for the underserved, as well as non-profits that provide benefits to underserved populations. For more information, including grant guidelines and applications, visit torchhelps.org.
TAGS:
Company Culture

--- Page: https://torchtechnologies.com/news/torch-technologies-inc.-awarded-contract/ ---

Torch Technologies Inc. Awarded $11M Contract
Thursday, March 23, 2023
Torch Technologies Inc. was awarded an $11,025,747 modification (P00050) to contract W31P4Q-21-F-0054 to provide various types of simulation support. Work will be performed in Huntsville, Alabama, with an estimated completion date of Sept. 24, 2024. Fiscal 2023 research, development, test and evaluation, Army funds; research, development, test and evaluation, defense-wide funds; and aircraft procurement, Army funds in the amount of $11,025,747 were obligated at the time of the award. U.S. Army Contracting Command, Redstone Arsenal, Alabama, is the contracting activity.
TAGS:
Contracts

--- Page: https://torchtechnologies.com/news/torch-wins-usasmdc-arstrat-decision-support-to/ ---

Torch Wins USASMDC/ARSTRAT Decision Support Task Order
Wednesday, May 23, 2018
Torch Technologies is pleased to announce it was awarded the $112M Decision Support Task Order under USASMDC/ARSTRAT's Systems Engineering and Technical Assistance Support (SETAS) umbrella program on the OASIS SB Contract. Torch's award provides support to the Decision Support Directorate of the U.S. Army Space and Missile Defense Command /Army Forces Strategic Command (USASMDC/ARSTRAT), Future Warfare Center in the areas of operational analysis execution to include data mining and assessment; exercise, experimentation and war-gaming preparation, participation and data assessment; and campaign/theater-level modeling and simulation (M&S) development, sustainment, and execution. Key areas to be supported include Integrated Air and Missile Defense (IAMD), Space, Space Superiority, High Altitude and Cyberspace Operations.
This is a three-year ordering period base with two additional one-year options resulting in a potential five-year Task Order that will be executed by the Torch team predominantly in Huntsville, the National Capital Region, and Colorado Springs. "The OASIS SETAS Decision Support Task Order allows Torch to provide and expand upon our current operational analysis and modeling and simulation support for SMDC's Decision Support Directorate and their customers," Torch President John Watson said. "We are honored and look forward to further strengthening our partnership with SMDC as we execute this critical effort."
TAGS:
OASIS

--- Page: https://torchtechnologies.com/news/?page=5 ---



--- Page: https://torchtechnologies.com/news/torch-team-supports-2021-huntsville-heart-walk/ ---

Torch Team Supports 2021 Huntsville Heart Walk
Monday, May 17, 2021
The Torch Team Supports the 2021 Huntsville Heart Walk
Torch employee-owners have a heart for giving back to their communities. Through Torch Helps, Torch In Action, and Torch corporate charitable giving and company-sponsored events, Torch employee-owners and families have set a high standard for involvement and community outreach.
This year, Torch employee-owners continued to show their heart for their community with their participation in the American Heart Association (AHA) Huntsville Heart Walk. The Torch team of Torch employee-owners, family, and friends raised more than $28,000 and was the top fundraising team and company, contributing to the more than $395,000 that was raised for the walk in downtown Huntsville on May 15th. This year, a Torch employee-owner, Debbie Overcash, was the Top Individual Fundraiser. As always, we were honored to be able to support this incredible event!
TAGS:
Company Culture

--- Page: https://torchtechnologies.com/news/torch-named-one-of-the-best-workplaces-for-millennials-by-great-place-to-work-and-fortune/ ---

Torch Named One of the Best Workplaces for Millennials by Great Place to Work® and FORTUNE
Tuesday, June 26, 2018
Great Place to Work
and FORTUNE have honored Torch Technologies as one of the
2018 Best Workplaces for Millennials
. The ranking considered input from more than 434,000 employees from Great Place to Work-Certified™ companies. Rankings are based on employees' experiences, no matter who they are or what they do for the organization.
"At Torch, we have been intentional in our efforts to attract and retain talent from every generation of our workforce, maintaining a culture that allows all employee-owners an opportunity to contribute to the company's success and to grow in their career with the company," says Torch President John Watson.
The Best Workplaces for Millennials stand out for their unique, innovative cultures, which helps them attract and retain Millennial employees. Great Place to Work, a research and consulting firm, evaluated more than 50 elements of team members' experience on the job. These included employee pride in the organization's community impact, belief that their work makes a difference, and feeling their work has special meaning. Torch has achieved this unique culture through a number of programs including the Society of Torch Emerging Professionals (STEPs), a voluntary internal group that currently has more than 70 members and focuses on professional development, networking, and community outreach opportunities for early career professionals. Torch has also implemented mentorship programs, a Leadership Book Club, training opportunities, and more.
"Great Place to Work is proud of these Best Workplaces that give their Millennial employees the tools they need to succeed," said Michael Bush, CEO of Great Place to Work. "Organizations like Torch Technologies set the bar for other workplaces seeking to retain and develop the next generation of leaders, and prove that giving Millennials jobs with purpose and meaning drives them to give their best at work, benefitting the company as a whole."
The Best Workplaces for Millennials is one of a
series of rankings by Great Place to Work
and FORTUNE based on employee feedback from Great Place to Work-Certified™ organizations.
Torch Technologies
was also ranked as a Best Workplace in Consulting & Professionals Services in 2016, 2017, and 2018, and as a Small and Medium Workplace by Great Place to Work® and FORTUNE in 2016 and 2017.
TAGS:
Company Culture

--- Page: https://torchtechnologies.com/news/torch-wins-the-2020-north-alabama-better-business-bureau-torch-award-for-marketplace-ethics/ ---

Torch Wins 2020 North Alabama Better Business Bureau Torch Award for Marketplace Ethics
Friday, November 20, 2020
BBB Torch Award for Ethics Presentation at Torch Technologies
Torch Technologies (Torch), a 100% employee-owned technology services and solutions company, has been awarded the coveted North Alabama Better Business Bureau's Torch Award for Marketplace Ethics in the Government Contractor category for 2020.
With this year's recognition, Torch is now the only four-time recipient of the North Alabama Better Business Bureau's Torch Award, having also won this award in the Mid-size Company category in 2005, the Large-size Company category in 2009, and the Government Contractor category in 2015.
Presented annually, the BBB Torch Award honors businesses that demonstrate exceedingly high standards of behavior toward customers, employees, suppliers, shareholders and communities; adherence to truthful and honorable advertising and sales practices; and an earned reputation for noteworthy contributions to their industries and the communities in which they do business. In lieu of the traditional annual awards luncheon, this year, due to COVID-19, winners were presented their awards at their place of business.
The Torch Award is designed to promote not only the importance of ethical business practices, but the willingness and efforts made by outstanding businesses to ensure that our country's marketplace remains fair and honorable for all Americans. Candidates for the Torch Award were nominated and given the opportunity to submit information regarding their ethical relationships with customers, employees, and vendors. A prestigious panel comprised of representatives of the academic and business community judged the 26 entries from businesses and organizations that accepted their nomination and provided an entry for the Torch Award.
"We are honored to receive this prestigious recognition from the Better Business Bureau of North Alabama," said Torch President and CEO John Watson. "The BBB upholds a national standard for enterprise and ethics, and we feel that receiving the Torch Award is one of the highest compliments that could be paid to us."
The BBB awarded the 2020 Torch Award for Ethics to: Jackson Plumbing, Heating & Cooling in the Small Business Category (1-25 employees); Lanier Ford Shaver & Payne P.C. in the Mid-Size Company Category (26-99 employees); Farmers Telecommunication Cooperative in the Large Business Category (100+ employees), Torch Technologies in the Government Contractor Category; and Ethic Tech in the Veteran-Owned Category.
TAGS:
Ethics

--- Page: https://torchtechnologies.com/news/torch-makes-washington-technology-top-100-government-contractors-list-for-fifth-year/ ---

Torch Makes Washington Technology "Top 100 Government Contractors"  List for Fifth Year
Tuesday, June 18, 2019
Washington Technology recently released its annual "Top 100" list and Torch Technologies was ranked #59 of the Top 100. The list ranks the largest government contractors by their prime contract dollars in IT, professional services, telecommunications, and other high-tech service areas. Torch, a 100% employee-owned business, has made this list for the past five years, ranking #86 in 2015, #75 in 2016, #68 in 2017, #61 in 2018, and moved up two spots in this year's ranking. Torch was the highest ranked Huntsville-headquartered company named to this year's list. Torch completed 2018 with over $403M in total revenue.
Torch President John Watson stated, "On behalf of our employee-owners, we are honored that the confidence placed in us by our DoD customers has resulted in Torch being recognized for the fifth year as one of the largest professional services prime contractors to the Federal Government."
See the complete list at
Washington Technology 2019 Top 100.
TAGS:
Growth

--- Page: https://torchtechnologies.com/news/torch-technologies-promotes-watson-to-president-and-ceo-as-roark-moves-into-starfish-holdings-ceo-role/ ---

Torch Technologies Promotes Watson to President and CEO as Roark Moves into Starfish Holdings CEO Role
Wednesday, January 02, 2019
Torch Technologies, Inc.
(Torch) recently announced that its Board of Directors has promoted John Watson from President to President and CEO effective January 1, 2019. Concurrent with this move, Torch Co-Founder and CEO, Bill Roark, has completed the planned transition into his role as CEO of Starfish Holdings, Inc., the parent company of Torch Technologies, Inc. and other Starfish holdings.
Watson has served as President of Torch since 2013 and will be the President and CEO with this promotion. This transition has occurred over the past two years, with Roark moving away from his full-time involvement with Torch and towards leadership of the Starfish Holdings enterprise.
"We have selected a strong, proven leader for Torch at a time when Torch is in a very strong position as a rapidly growing employee-owned small business," said Co-Founder Bill Roark. "Since John became President in 2013, he has continually grown the company in multiple locations, broadening both our capabilities and solutions. We have full confidence that John will continue to move the company forward, capitalizing on the opportunities in front of us, and will lead the company in the best interest of our employee-owners."
Watson joined Torch in 2009 as Vice President of Corporate Development before assuming the President role in 2013. "I joined Torch in 2009 because I wanted to be a part of a company that not only had an established reputation within the community and with customers for its ethics and values, but also had vast possibilities for growth and innovation," said Watson. "Today it is even more clear to me that Torch is that company. I am honored that Bill and the Torch Board have placed their faith in me to continue to lead Torch in this capacity."
TAGS:
Leadership

--- Page: https://torchtechnologies.com/news/torch-makes-inc-5000-list-for-14th-consecutive-year/ ---

Torch Makes Inc. 5000 List for 14th Consecutive Year
Wednesday, August 12, 2020
Of the tens of thousands of companies that have applied to the Inc. 5000, 0.02% have made the list 14 times.
Inc.
magazine today revealed that
Torch Technologies
, a 100% employee-owned technology services and solutions company headquartered in Huntsville, is No. 4313 on its annual Inc. 5000 list, the most prestigious ranking of the nation's fastest-growing private companies.
Torch is the only company in Alabama -and one of less than ten companies nationwide- that has made the list 14 or more years. Since its 2002 founding in Huntsville, Alabama, Torch has maintained consistent growth, expanding to include seven regional technical offices, and providing on-site field support at customer locations worldwide.
"We are proud that Torch has again been recognized as one of the fastest-growing private companies in America, and we are delighted to be among the 0.02 percent who have made the list 14 years," said Torch President and CEO John Watson. "During these unprecedented times, we are especially thankful for Torch's continued success and for our employee-owners' diligence and commitment to our company, to our customers, and to the Warfighter."
Not only have the companies on the 2020 Inc. 5000 been very competitive within their markets, but the list as a whole shows staggering growth compared with prior lists as well. The 2020 Inc. 5000 achieved an incredible three-year average growth of over 500 percent, and a median rate of 165 percent. The Inc. 5000's aggregate revenue was $209 billion in 2019, accounting for over 1 million jobs over the past three years.
Complete results of the Inc. 5000, including company profiles and an interactive database that can be sorted by industry, region, and other criteria, can be found at
www.inc.com/inc5000
TAGS:
Growth

--- Page: https://torchtechnologies.com/news/steps-supports-our-troops-with-holiday-care-packages/ ---

Detroit STEPs Supports Our Troops with Holiday Care Packages
Tuesday, November 05, 2024
Over the weekend, our Detroit STEPS group volunteered with Operation Care Package, packing 150 boxes filled with essentials and treats—everything from socks and snacks to soap, toothbrushes, and T-shirts. These care packages will soon be on their way to service members across all military branches and ranks, with some even set for special delivery to an active submarine!
TAGS:
Community
Company Culture

--- Page: https://torchtechnologies.com/news/9th-annual-torch-golf-tournament-raises-50k-for-village-of-promise/ ---

9th Annual Torch Golf Tournament Raises $57,500 for Village of Promise
Monday, September 23, 2019
Torch Technologies hosted its 9
th
annual golf tournament on Friday, September 20 at the RTJ Golf Trail at Hampton Cove. The golf tournament hosted 240 players (max capacity) who played on both the River Course and the Highlands Course this year. All proceeds from the event benefited the Village of Promise and its mission to eradicate generational poverty one neighborhood at a time. The Village of Promise helps children of all ages receive support to help them achieve educational success from early childhood in their Infant University program to college and beyond.
The tournament began with an 8:30 shotgun start at the RTJ Golf Trail at Hampton Cove. 60 teams participated in the tournament, enjoying a beautiful day of golf while helping children of all ages receive support to help them achieve educational success- from early childhood in their Infant University program to college and beyond. Through the donations of the players, sponsors, and a contribution from Torch, Torch was pleased to present Cofounder Bobbie Bradley and Executive Director Dr. Rachel Ballard with a check for $57,500 to benefit Village of Promise programs.
President John Watson stated, "We believe in giving back to the communities where our employee-owners live and work. By investing in the future of the children in our community, we aim to raise the standard of living for everyone. We are so grateful to our sponsors, participants, and volunteers for sharing that vision with us. We were excited to be able to grow last year's donation of $37,500 that is going to Village of Promise programs. We look forward to continuing our partnership with Village of Promise in support of their invaluable programs."
Village of Promise
- Village of Promise serves the needs of children and families from cradle to college to career in distressed neighborhoods. Education, health, enrichment programs and family support services are simply what they do to help each child succeed in school. Their initial efforts are focused in the neighborhood surrounding University Place Elementary School, Montview Elementary School, Westlawn Middle School and Butler High School. To learn more about the Village of Promise go to
www.villagepromise.com
TAGS:
Community

--- Page: https://torchtechnologies.com/news/the-torch-team-supports-the-2018-aha-north-alabama-heart-walk/ ---

The Torch Team Supports the 2018 AHA North Alabama Heart Walk
Monday, April 16, 2018
Torch employee-owners have a heart for giving back to their communities. Through Torch Helps, Torch In Action, and Torch corporate charitable giving and company-sponsored events, Torch employee-owners and families have set a high standard for involvement and community outreach. Torch employee-owners' participation in the American Heart Association (AHA) North Alabama Heart Walk continued this year. The Torch Team had 117 participants and Torch employee-owners, family and friends joined the Torch Team on Saturday, April 14
th
in downtown Huntsville for the annual event. The Torch Team raised $29,975 through 168 donations and was the highest fundraising team, contributing to the more than $400,000 that was raised by AHA during the walk. This year, Torch's CEO and Co-Founder Bill Roark was the Heart Walk's Top Executive Fundraiser. Like Torch, this event continues to grow each year, and we are happy to be a part of it!
TAGS:
Company Culture

--- Page: https://torchtechnologies.com/news/dan-bayston-joins-torch-board-of-directors/ ---

Dan Bayston Joins Torch Board of Directors
Monday, September 06, 2021
Torch Technologies (Torch) recently announced that Dan Bayston has joined the Torch Board of Directors. Mr. Bayston has more than 38 years of experience as a corporate finance and business valuation professional assisting publicly traded and privately held corporate clients and ERISA fiduciaries. He spent the first 25 years of his career with financial service and investment banking firm, Duff & Phelps. In 2009, he joined several former Duff & Phelps partners to form Cognient Group, LLC, where he led its Corporate Financial Advisory practice until his retirement in 2021. He also served as CEO of Cognient Securities, LLC, a broker dealer affiliate, until its sale in 2015. He is a member of many professional organizations including NCEO, ESCA, and the ESOP Association, and has served on many Boards of ESOP companies. Bayston received his MBA in Finance/Marketing from Northwestern and his BS in Finance from the University of Illinois.
TAGS:
Leadership

--- Page: https://torchtechnologies.com/news/torch-awarded-lifecycle-engineering-support-contract/ ---

Torch Awarded Lifecycle Engineering Support Contract
Friday, September 07, 2018
Torch Technologies is pleased to announce it was awarded a $156.3M contract by the U.S. Army Aviation and Missile Research, Development, and Engineering Center's (AMRDEC) Engineering Directorate (ED) for full spectrum technical research, development, and engineering support of DoD systems.  The contract has a 3½ year period of performance including exercised options and will be executed primarily in Huntsville, AL.
Torch's team will integrate Army needs across the complete range of life-cycle engineering responsibilities for programs and products. Engineering expertise delivered under the contract enables comprehensive and rapid research, design, development, production, acquisition, test, delivery, sustainment, modification, modernization, and reclamation support for aviation, missile, ground, sea, and soldier systems and all associated development, production, and support equipment.
"The Lifecycle contract allows Torch to continue building upon our success delivering innovative solutions for Warfighter systems which rely upon ED's broad lifecycle engineering expertise," Torch President and CEO John Watson said. "We are honored to support this effort in partnership with the AMRDEC Engineering Directorate." The U.S. Army AMRDEC is operationally aligned with the U.S. Army's new Army Futures Command (AFC). The AMRDEC provides an extensive research, development, engineering, and acquisition capability to enable responsive solutions for the nation's Warfighters. AMRDEC has the mission to deliver collaborative and innovative aviation and missile capabilities for responsive and cost-effective research, development, life cycle engineering, and modernization solutions.
TAGS:
Contracts

--- Page: https://torchtechnologies.com/news/torch-makes-bloomberg-government-top-200-list-for-4th-year/ ---

Torch Makes Bloomberg Government "Top 200" List for 4th Year
Wednesday, June 24, 2020
Bloomberg Government released its annual "BGOV200" list today and Torch Technologies was ranked #122 of the Top 200. The list ranks the top federal contractors based on prime contracts awarded in fiscal 2019. Torch, a 100% employee-owned business, made the list for the first time in 2017, ranking #157, for the second time in 2018 ranking #155, and for the third time last year ranking #148. Torch was one of five Alabama companies named to the list in 2020, and the highest ranked of three Huntsville headquartered companies on this year's list.
Torch President and CEO John Watson stated, "Torch continues to strive to provide the greatest and most cost-efficient solutions to our government customers in support of the Warfighter, so we are proud that we have again been included on the Bloomberg Government list of the top federal contractors for the fourth consecutive year."
See the complete list at
BGOV200
.
TAGS:
Company Growth

--- Page: https://torchtechnologies.com/news/award-announcement-nawcad-wolf-rapid-mac-idiq-prime-contract-award/ ---

AWARD ANNOUNCEMENT: NAWCAD WOLF RAPID MAC IDIQ Prime Contract Award
Thursday, June 23, 2022
Torch Technologies, Inc. was awarded a RAPID MAC Prime Contract, (N00421-22-D-0060), on the Naval Air Warfare Center Aircraft Division (NAWCAD) Webster Outlying Field (WOLF) RAPID MAC IDIQ in (Pool 2: Command and Control (C2) Solutions). This effort will provide engineering design, tailored systems engineering, and product acquisition in the development, integration, and fielding of solutions for warfighting capability gaps. The scope includes the application of rapid development, rapid prototyping, and organic Lead Systems Integration in the development of product-based solutions in areas to include: Combat Integration & Identification Systems, Ship & Air Integrated Warfare Systems, Special Communications Mission Solutions, Air Traffic Control & Landing Systems, Airborne Systems Integration, Integrated Command and Control. The period of performance for the RAPID MAC is March 04, 2022 - March 03, 2027.
TAGS:

--- Page: https://torchtechnologies.com/news/promotion-of-brady-porter-to-torch-vice-president/ ---

Promotion of Brady Porter to Torch Vice President
Wednesday, February 01, 2023
Torch Technologies is thrilled to announce the promotion of Brady Porter to Vice President effective February 1, 2023. Mr. Porter joined Torch in 2004 and manages the Torch Advanced Concept Engineering (ACE) Group headquartered in Huntsville, AL with employee-owners in multiple locations across the United States. He has over 25 years of experience in the defense industry. Throughout his career, he has supported a wide range of defense and other programs that span both tactical and strategic systems.
Brad Walker, Torch President, stated, “Over the years, Brady has been a dedicated employee-owner who has been an exceptional example of our Torch culture and our core values. He is well versed in the technical and business principles that continue to make Torch successful for our customer mission, employee-owners, and communities.” As Vice President, Mr. Porter will provide senior leadership to the Torch Advanced Concept Engineering (ACE) Group while focusing additional efforts on Torch’s continued growth.
About Brady Porter:
Mr. Porter’s technical expertise includes architecture, design, and development of enterprise-level software systems for defense applications. His technical accomplishments include leading the design and development of system-level analytical software used to assess the performance of integrated missile defense systems.
During his tenure at Torch and prior to joining the company, Mr. Porter served in a variety of progressively complex technical and leadership roles. Prior to his promotion, he served as deputy for the Advanced Concept Engineering (ACE) Group which supports a diverse set of customers by providing superior engineering, logistics, operations, test and evaluation, and environmental services and solutions. The group consists of over 620 Torch employee-owners across four business units focused in the areas of Combat Systems, Strategic Systems, Technology Development, and Space & Joint Operations.
Mr. Porter earned his Bachelor of Science degree in Electrical Engineering from the University of Tennessee, Knoxville.  He is a graduate of the Leadership Greater Huntsville Management Academy (MA-8) and Flagship (L-32) programs.  Mr. Porter has volunteered for a number of community programs and currently serves as a board member for both Torch Helps and the Quatina M. Wolaver Foundation of Hope.  He resides in Fayetteville, Tennessee with his wife Suzanne, son Cameron, and daughter Carolyn.
TAGS:

--- Page: https://torchtechnologies.com/news/torch-achieves-certified-evergreen™-status/ ---

Torch Achieves Certified Evergreen Status
Tuesday, March 08, 2022
Torch Technologies (Torch)
, a 100% employee-owned technology services and solutions company headquartered in Huntsville, Alabama, is proud to announce that it is now Certified Evergreen™. A timely achievement for Torch employee-owners as they will celebrate Torch's 20th anniversary this October, becoming Certified Evergreen™ signifies that while Torch employee-owners can look back on Torch's past with pride, Torch is also looking forward. Becoming Certified Evergreen™ means that Torch has committed to finding ways to make 100 percent employee ownership sustainable so that Torch will remain a private company forever.
According to
Tugboat Institute®
, the Evergreen™ certification is awarded to lasting, private companies that intend to
adapt and grow profitably for 100 years, and more
. Companies that are awarded
Certified Evergreen™
status have undergone an extensive, rigorous assessment with the intention of continual improvement and enduring excellence around values, practices, and people.
Torch co-founder Bill Roark explained that it was always in the plan that Torch would not be sold, stating, "From the beginning, we had a goal to be 100% employee-owned because my co-founder and I had worked for companies that were acquired and we saw firsthand how that changed the culture and morale." Roark continued, "We did not want to do that to our employees who contribute daily to the success of the company; we wanted to be able to control our own destiny."
This certification signifies not only Torch's commitment to being a forever company, but it also signifies Torch's commitment to Tugboat Institute's seven core values, the Evergreen 7Ps™. The first three Ps—
Purpose, Perseverance, and People
First—define the character of the leaders and team. The last four Ps—
Private, Profit, Paced Growth, and Pragmatic Innovation
—reflect the long-term strategy tenets of an Evergreen™ business.
"We are honored to be recognized as a Certified Evergreen™ company by Tugboat Institute® and to join a peer group of private companies who share our values," said Torch President and CEO John Watson. Watson continued, "The Evergreen™ certification represents a commitment that we have made to our employee-owners and to our customers– Torch is evergreen. We are proud of the dedication that Torch employee-owners have demonstrated to the Warfighter, to our communities, and to one another, and we look forward to what Torch will accomplish in the years to come as an Evergreen™ company."
TAGS:

--- Page: https://torchtechnologies.com/news/torch-presents-simvana-at-2021-seriousplay-conference/ ---

Torch Presents SIMVANA at 2021 SeriousPlay Conference
Thursday, August 12, 2021
Last month, the Torch Advanced VIZLAB, in collaboration with Prodigy Anesthesia and Epic Games, presented SIMVANA at the Serious Play 2021 conference. SIMVANA is Torch's VR training application geared toward educating university students in anesthesia programs across the country. SIMVANA's SME Peter Stallo did a phenomenal job presenting how impactful virtual training can be in the high stakes medical industry, and how SIMVANA is answering the needs of the next-generation of anesthesiologists. The SIMVANA development team of Dylan Barret, Blake Driggers, Andre Domingue, and Alex Engelmann have been hard at work refining the user experience over the past few months, and the results were evident given the overwhelmingly positive response during the presentation. Many attendees commented on the high level of polish and good design that is usually lacking in VR training applications. We look forward to seeing how SIMVANA grows as it continues it's beta program and transition to a commercial product!
TAGS:

--- Page: https://torchtechnologies.com/news/torch-named-one-of-the-2021-best-workplaces-in-consulting-and-professional-services-by-great-place-to-work-for-sixth-consecutive-year/ ---

Torch Named One of the 2021 Best Workplaces in Consulting and Professional Services by Great Place to Work® for Sixth Consecutive Year
Friday, April 23, 2021
Great Place to Work® has once again honored Torch Technologies (Torch) as one of the
2021 Best Workplaces in Consulting & Professional Services
. This is Torch's sixth time being named to this prestigious list, and Torch secured the No. 20 spot as the only Huntsville-headquartered company on the Large Companies list. Earning a spot means that Torch is one of the best companies to work for in the country.
The Best Workplaces in Consulting & Professional Services award is based on analysis of survey responses from more than 463,000 current employees working in the consulting or professional services industries in the United States. Great Place to Work®, a global people analytics and consulting firm, distributed and evaluated more than 60 survey questions describing the extent to which the employee's organization creates a Great Place to Work For All™.
Eighty-five percent of the evaluation is based on what employees say about their experiences of trust and reaching their full human potential as part of their organization, no matter who they are or what they do. The remaining 15 percent of the rank is based on an assessment of all employees' daily experiences of innovation, the company's values, and the effectiveness of their leaders.
"We are so grateful to our dedicated employee-owners for their constant commitment to excellence during these unprecedented times," said Torch President and CEO John Watson. "We celebrate and thank our employee-owners for all they have done to earn Torch this incredible honor. We are also honored that our employee-owners continue to rate our workplace highly, and that Great Place to Work® is recognizing our positive culture for the sixth consecutive year."
The Best Workplaces in Consulting & Professional Services list is highly competitive. Great Place to Work, the global authority on workplace culture, selected the list using rigorous analytics and confidential employee feedback. Companies were only considered if they are a Great Place to Work-Certified™ organization. Ninety-six percent of Torch's employee-owners said Torch is a great place to work. This number is thirty-seven percent higher than the average U.S. company.
Great Place to Work is the only company culture award in America that selects winners based on how fairly employees are treated. Companies are assessed on how well they are creating a great employee experience that cuts across race, gender, age, disability status, or any aspect of who employees are or what their role is.
"These companies are proof that strong company culture is not restricted to the physical workplace," said Sarah Lewis-Kulin, VP global recognition, Great Place to Work®. "Despite the challenges of the pandemic and remote work, employees at these companies say they feel supported by their leaders, connected to their colleagues and that managers bring out the best in everyone."
The Best Workplaces in Consulting & Professional Services is one of a
series of rankings by Great Place to Work
based on employee feedback from Great Place to Work-Certified™ organizations. Torch was also recognized as a Best Workplace in Consulting & Professionals Services in each year from 2016-2020, a Best Small and Medium Workplace by Great Place to Work® in each year from 2016-2018, as well as a Best Workplace for Millennials in 2018 and 2020 by Great Place to Work® and FORTUNE magazine. Additionally, Torch was also named a Best Workplace for Parents by Great Place to Work® in 2020.
TAGS:
Company Culture

--- Page: https://torchtechnologies.com/news/starfish-holdings-welcomes-communications-director/ ---

Starfish Holdings Welcomes Communications Director
Wednesday, March 27, 2024
Starfish Holdings (Starfish), the parent company of Torch Technologies, Freedom Real Estate, and SIMVANA today announced the appointment of Tammie Dodson as Director of Communications.
“As the companies within the Starfish portfolio continue to grow, so do the needs of Starfish. This role is key to enabling Starfish to fulfill its purpose of growing the retirement portfolios of the employee-owners of our subsidiaries,” said Starfish President John Watson. “We are excited to welcome Tammie to the Starfish team. She brings the experience, knowledge, and dedication required to help us take Starfish to the next level.”
“As a benefit corporation and Certified Evergreen™ company, Starfish has committed to make a positive impact on society and make 100 percent employee-ownership sustainable for the next 100 years,” said Bill Roark, CEO, Starfish Holdings. “Tammie will help us take Starfish to the next level and are essential to achieving these goals.”
Dodson brings over 30 years of experience to Starfish. Previously, she has led communications activities for organizations, including Nichols Research Corporation, the Huntsville Madison County Chamber of Commerce, the Port of Huntsville, and most recently, Adtran, where she served as senior manager of corporate communications. In this role, she was responsible for addressing the communication needs of both internal and external stakeholders. Dodson holds a Bachelor of Arts in Communication from The University of Alabama and a Master of Science in Strategic Communications Management from Purdue University.
As director of communications, Dodson will lead communications for Starfish and its portfolio of companies. She will oversee all aspects of internal and external communications across all platforms and develop marketing and communication campaigns for the commercial companies in the Starfish portfolio.
About Starfish Holdings Starfish Holdings, Inc.
(Starfish) is the parent company of Torch Technologies, Freedom Real Estate & Capital, LLC, and SIMVANA. The company is an S-corp owned by the Starfish Employee Stock Ownership Plan (ESOP) and Trust with a focus to grow the retirement portfolios of the employee-owners of its subsidiaries. Starfish is committed to remaining an Evergreen enterprise through sustainable processes, ensuring employee ownership and financial wellbeing, supporting community wellbeing, enabling customer and partner success, all while operating with integrity. To learn more, visit starfishholdings.com.
TAGS:

--- Page: https://torchtechnologies.com/news/?page=15 ---



--- Page: https://torchtechnologies.com/news/torch-named-one-of-the-2020-best-workplaces-for-parents-by-great-place-to-work/ ---

Torch Named One of the 2020 Best Workplaces for Parents by Great Place to Work®
Wednesday, December 02, 2020
For the first time, Great Place to Work
®
has honored Torch Technologies (Torch) as one of the
2020 Best Workplaces for Parents
. The top companies earned this award because they have created consistently positive experiences for working parents. This award is particularly significant in light of the extremely difficult and novel challenges facing parents this year.
Great Place to Work determined the Best Workplaces for Parents
TM
by gathering and analyzing confidential employee experience feedback representing 4.8 million U.S. employees across more than 20 industries - the largest annual study of working parents to date.
"It is an honor to be recognized as one of the Best Workplaces for Parents," said John Watson, Torch President and CEO. "It makes us especially proud to receive this recognition during a time when companies, and parents, have been challenged in this new telework environment."
Employees reported their workplace experience using the industry-leading
Trust Index© survey
. The survey is proven to quantify over 75 metrics of company culture, including levels of trust, pride, management effectiveness, innovation, diversity and equity. All Trust Index© survey results were representative of their entire workforce and accurate to a 95% confidence level with a 5% margin of error or better.
Great Place to Work then selected the Best Workplaces for Parents from this dataset using their For All
TM
Methodology. Eighty-five percent of the evaluation was based on parents' scores of trust and fairness. The remaining fifteen percent was based on how parenting status influenced other aspects of employees' work experience as well as their experience of the company's leadership effectiveness, meaningful values, and innovation.
Great Place to Work's analysis also focused on how parents' workplace experiences compare to those of their non-parent colleagues and determining whether their job level, race/ethnicity or any other personal characteristic changed the level of support they received as a working parent.  Finally, they reviewed each company's parental leave, adoption, flexible schedule, childcare and dependent health care benefits.
"At Torch, we like to think of ourselves as a families-owned company," said John Watson, Torch President and CEO. "Consequently, we strive to develop a family-friendly work environment, which for us means prioritizing work-life balance, flexible scheduling, providing excellent family healthcare benefits, offering retirement security and encouraging fun through our several Torch family events throughout the year."
Full details of the study and findings can be found in the report authored by Great Place to Work in Partnership with Maven Clinic.
"Best workplaces like Torch Technologies have built dynamic, flexible, and transparent workplaces built on trust," said Michael C. Bush, CEO of Great Place to Work. "This gives companies on this list a powerful opportunity not just to do well for their people, but also to do well for their businesses."
rents stand out for their commitment to a strong work-life balance and they prioritize time spent with family. Torch encourages family bonding through employee morale events held at various locations throughout the year, with events varying from family movie matinees, pumpkin picking, trampoline nights, ice skating, and an annual holiday party for Torch children and grandchildren.
The Best Workplaces for Parents list is one of a
series of rankings by Great Place to Work
and based on employee feedback from Great Place to Work-Certified™ organizations. Torch was also ranked as a Best Workplace in Consulting & Professionals Services in 2016-2020, a Best Workplace for Millennials in 2018 and 2020 by Great Place to Work and FORTUNE, as well as a Best Small and Medium Workplace by Great Place to Work and FORTUNE in 2016-2018.
TAGS:
Company Culture

--- Page: https://torchtechnologies.com/news/torch-hosts-hpd-drone-demonstration/ ---

Torch Hosts HPD Drone Demonstration
Thursday, January 18, 2024
While many people know that Huntsville was one of the early homes of the Army rocket programs that earned it the nickname “The Rocket City,” it is also the center for the Army’s drone programs. Small Unmanned Aircraft Systems (sUAS) are becoming useful tools outside of the military applications. The HPD has been a leader in using commercially built drones to enhance public safety. Torch Technologies hosted a meeting with Police Officer Chad Tillman of the Huntsville Police Department (HPD) and several of his drone pilots to discuss how Torch could apply our expertise with military drones to enhance the HPD drone operations.
Officer Tillman said, “The HPD drones are able to provide major support to traffic investigation, drug interdiction, and special teams.” Because HPD drone pilots are patrol officers embedded in precincts throughout the city, officers can respond to an event within their precinct in under 5-10 minutes with their drones carried in their police vehicles. This has caused drone use to increase and has shown how drones play a vital role in a wide range of police missions. However, their current operations are limited because the HPD pilots cannot utilize many of the features available to military drone pilots.
Smaller and much lower cost than military drones, the HPD drones are commercially procured and are quite useful “out-of-the-box,” but there are limitations. The drones operate over commercial communications wavebands and therefore have very limited range. Some of the issues they have are the limitations on the sensors built into the sUAS. The HPD expressed a desire to have better situational awareness when flying the drones. This includes adding more sophisticated, yet affordable, sensors for better night vision, a sensor to detect "shots fired" to geolocate gun fire, and better sensors to avoid obstacles, especially when flying in side buildings. Another desire is expanded communications bandwidth to transmit video back to their analysts at their headquarters for real-time evaluation.
HPD was interested in accessing Torch’s wealth of experience in aviation, sensors, and software solutions, including AI detection/tracking algorithms, to integrate greater autonomy into the operations of the drones to ease the burden on the police pilots. HPD plans to purchase more drones, continue training officers, establish a city-wide command and control infrastructure, and build out a sUAS support vehicle in the future. As a community partner, Torch is exploring ways to share our skills and experience to help our community and perhaps become a partner in the HPD drone program.
TAGS:

--- Page: https://torchtechnologies.com/news/torch-makes-bloomberg-government-top-200-list-for-2nd-year/ ---

Torch Makes Bloomberg Government "Top 200" List for 2nd Year
Saturday, August 18, 2018
Bloomberg Government recently released its annual "BGOV200" list and Torch Technologies was ranked #155 of the Top 200. The list ranks the top federal contractors based on prime contracts awarded in fiscal 2017. Torch, a 100% employee-owned small business, made the list for the first time last year, ranked #157. Torch was one of five Alabama companies named to the list in 2018, and the highest ranked of three Huntsville headquartered companies on this year's list.
Torch President John Watson stated, "We are proud that Torch has been included on the Bloomberg Government list of the top federal contractors for the second consecutive year, and we continue to strive to provide the best and most cost-efficient services and solutions to our government customers in support of the Warfighter."
See the complete list at
BGOV200.
TAGS:
Company Growth

--- Page: https://torchtechnologies.com/news/torch-receives-fortune-best-workplaces-for-millennials-2021/ ---

Torch Receives Fortune Best Workplaces for Millennials 2021
Wednesday, July 21, 2021
Consulting firm Great Place to Work® and
Fortune
magazine have named Torch one of the country's 2021 Best Workplaces for Millennials, ranked #79 on the Large Companies list. The winning companies were selected based on anonymous responses to the Trust Index© survey, Great Place to Work's employee assessment survey that was completed by employee-owners in the summer of 2020. Torch also received this award in 2018 and 2020. In the survey, employees rated more than 60 elements of their experience on the job. Eighty-five percent of the evaluation is based on what millennials say about their experiences of trust and reaching their full human potential as part of their organization. The remaining 15 percent of the rank is based on an assessment of millennials' daily experiences of innovation, the company's values, and the effectiveness of their leaders. Great Place to Work partnered with
Fortune
magazine to publish the listings. A link to the listing is provided below.
Fortune Best Workplaces for Millennials™ 2021 | Great Place to Work®
TAGS:
Company Culture

--- Page: https://torchtechnologies.com/news/asme-names-torch-outstanding-engineering-firm-of-the-year/ ---

ASME Names Torch Outstanding Engineering Firm of the Year
Friday, February 21, 2020
Torch Technologies employee-owners at the Engineers Week Banquet.
Torch Technologies is proud to announce it has been chosen by the American Society of Mechanical Engineers (ASME), North Alabama Section (NAS), as the Outstanding Engineering Organization for 2020.
In selecting the engineering organization of the year, the NAS considers engineering accomplishment, contributions to the community, milestones, research, and contracts that impact the Huntsville/Tennessee Valley area. The award was presented at the American Society of Civil Engineers' Engineers Week banquet on February 20
th
at the Jackson Center in Huntsville.
Torch President and CEO John Watson stated, "We are honored to receive this recognition during Engineers Week, and we have our employee-owners to thank for our continued success. Our engineers continue to strive to deliver outstanding solutions and technologies to our customer, and we take great pride in the work that we do supporting the Warfighter."
TAGS:
Company Culture

--- Page: https://torchtechnologies.com/news/torch-technologies-named-esop-company-of-the-year/ ---

Torch Named ESOP Company of the Year
Friday, March 02, 2018
Torch Technologies is proud to announce it has been recognized as the ESOP Company of the Year by the New South Chapter of The ESOP Association. The New South Chapter is one of 18 chapters of The ESOP Association that provides educational services and resources to member companies in Tennessee, Mississippi, Alabama, Georgia, and Florida. Torch will represent the New South Chapter in the upcoming national award competition for ESOP Company of the Year.
Torch President John Watson stated, "We are proud to have been recognized as the ESOP Company of the Year representing the five Southeastern states of the New South Chapter. As always, our employee-owners are to thank for this recognition for their continued commitment to excellence at Torch."
TAGS:
ESOP

--- Page: https://torchtechnologies.com/news/congratulations-to-amanda-clark-and-john-roberts/ ---

Congratulations to Amanda Clark and John Roberts
Tuesday, May 28, 2024
We would like to congratulate Amanda Clark and John Roberts on their recent recognition by Business Alabama Monthly Magazine and the Huntsville Business Journal. Amanda was named to the Business Alabama Monthly 24 Women in Tech for 2024. The list includes company founders and CEOs and those in other positions who have brought their unique tech skillset to the forefront. Recipients were selected by a review panel from nominations across the state.
Alabama's top Women in Tech: 24 for '24 (businessalabama.com)
John Roberts was recently named to the Huntsville Business Journal’s Top 40 Under 40. This list celebrates individuals who are not only shaping the present but also leading confidently into the future and are seen as part of the driving force behind Huntsville’s continued success.
Read in browser »
(See page 17)
TAGS:

--- Page: https://torchtechnologies.com/news/starfish-holdings-appoints-cindy-walz-to-board-of-directors/ ---

Starfish Holdings Appoints Cindy Walz to Board of Directors
Wednesday, February 05, 2025
Torch CFO Brings Wealth of Experience to Starfish Board
HUNTSVILLE, Ala., February 4, 2025 –
Starfish Holdings (Starfish), the parent company of Torch Technologies, Freedom Real Estate & Capital, LLC, and SIMVANA today announced that Torch Technologies Chief Financial Officer Cindy Walz has been appointed to the board of directors.
"Cindy brings invaluable experience," said Starfish Chairman of the Board Bill Roark. "Her extensive background, paired with her deep understanding of the other Starfish companies, makes her an ideal addition to the Starfish board."
Walz has over 30 years of experience in finance and accounting. She joined Torch Technologies, Inc. as Chief Financial Officer in 2017. Before joining Torch, she was Vice President, Finance for Vencore, Inc. (formerly Westar Aerospace/QinetiQ). In addition, she has extensive experience in all aspects of Finance and Accounting and has served in senior finance leadership positions at Teledyne Solutions, Inc. and Intergraph in the Huntsville area; Sikorsky Aircraft in Stratford, Connecticut; and United Technologies in Jupiter, Florida. She holds a B.S. in Accounting from the University of Alabama, and an MBA from Florida Atlantic University.
About Starfish Holdings
Starfish Holdings, Inc. (Starfish) is the parent company of Torch Technologies, Freedom Real Estate & Capital, LLC, and SIMVANA. The company is an S corporation owned by the Starfish Employee Stock Ownership Plan (ESOP) and Trust with a focus on growing the retirement portfolios of the employee-owners of its subsidiaries. Starfish is committed to remaining an Evergreen enterprise through sustainable processes, ensuring employee ownership and financial well-being, supporting community well-being, and enabling customer and partner success, all while operating with integrity. To learn more, visit
starfishholdings.com
.
TAGS:
Company Growth
Leadership

--- Page: https://torchtechnologies.com/news/torch-earns-2024-great-place-to-work-certification™/ ---

Torch Earns 2024 Great Place To Work Certification™
Tuesday, June 25, 2024
Huntsville, AL-Torch is proud to be Certified™ by Great Place To Work
®
for the ninth consecutive year year.
The prestigious award is based entirely on what current employees say about their experience working at Torch.
Great Place To Work
®
is the global authority on workplace culture, employee experience, and the leadership behaviors proven to deliver market-leading revenue, employee retention and increased innovation.
"Great Place To Work certification is a highly coveted achievement that requires consistent and intentional dedication to the overall employee experience," says Sarah Lewis-Kulin, the Vice President of Global Recognition at Great Place To Work. She emphasizes that certification is the sole official recognition earned by the real-time feedback of employees regarding their company culture. “By successfully earning this recognition, it is evident that Torch stands out as one of the top companies to work for, providing a great workplace environment for its employees."
“We are thrilled to be Great Place To Work-Certified™ for the 9th year in a row as we consider our employee-owners’ experience a top priority every day,” said Torch President Brad Walker. “We owe our continued success to our team of dedicated employees. We celebrate and thank them for all they do in support of our customers and for helping us to earn this prestigious recognition.”
According to
Great Place To Work research
, job seekers are 4.5 times more likely to find a great boss at a Certified great workplace. Additionally, employees at certified workplaces are 93% more likely to look forward to coming to work, and are twice as likely to be paid fairly, earn a fair share of the company’s profits and have a fair chance at promotion.
TAGS:

--- Page: https://torchtechnologies.com/news/torch-makes-washington-technology-top-100-government-contractors-list-for-seventh-consecutive-year/ ---

Torch Makes Washington Technology "Top 100 Government Contractors" List for Seventh Consecutive Year
Friday, June 18, 2021
Washington Technology released its annual "Top 100" list today and
Torch Technologies (Torch)
was ranked #46 of the Top 100. The list ranks the largest government contractors by their prime contract dollars in IT, telecommunications, consulting, professional services, engineering, and other technology driven products and services. Torch, a 100% employee-owned business, has made this list for the past seven years, ranking #86 in 2015, #75 in 2016, #68 in 2017, #61 in 2018, #59 in 2019, #54 in 2020, and moved up eight spots in this year's ranking.
Torch President and CEO John Watson stated, "We are very proud to be recognized as one of the largest professional services prime contractors to the Federal Government for the seventh consecutive year. This recognition reflects the confidence placed in our company because of the diligence and excellence our employee-owners display in serving our services and solutions DoD customers."
TAGS:
Company Growth

--- Page: https://torchtechnologies.com/news/torch-named-one-of-the-best-workplaces-in-colorado-springs-for-third-year/ ---

Torch Named One of the Best Workplaces in Colorado Springs for Third Year
Friday, December 08, 2023
Torch Technologies (Torch), a 100 percent employee-owned company, is proud to announce that it has been named one of the Best Workplaces in Colorado Springs for the third time.
The 7th annual Best Workplaces event was hosted by the Colorado Springs Gazette on December 7, 2023. Selections for the Best in Business awards were based on anonymous survey responses completed by employees in the Fall of 2023. The anonymous surveys assessed companies' leadership, culture, mission, values, benefits, training, and social responsibility.
The Best Workplaces awards seek to recognize companies that truly understand the essential link between a positive corporate culture and bottom-line performance and growth. Further, the awards program celebrates organizations that cultivate workplace cultures that recruit and retain a strong workforce in the Colorado Springs area.
Torch President Brad Walker said, "We are honored to receive the distinction of being recognized as one of the Best Workplaces in Colorado Springs for the third year. This award is a testament to the exceptional dedication of our team in Colorado Springs, who consistently demonstrate unwavering commitment to our mission, our community, and the success of our company. Congratulations to each member of our team on this well-deserved achievement!"
TAGS:

--- Page: https://torchtechnologies.com/news/promotion-of-sam-burkett-to-torch-senior-vice-president/ ---

Promotion of Sam Burkett to Torch Senior Vice President
Wednesday, February 01, 2023
Torch Technologies is pleased to announce the promotion of Sam Burkett to Senior Vice President effective February 1, 2023. Mr. Burkett joined Torch in 2016 and manages the Torch Air Force Weapons Group headquartered in Shalimar, FL, with employee-owners in Albuquerque, NM, Dayton, OH, Boston, MA, Hampton, VA, Las Vegas, NV, Montgomery, AL, and San Antonio, TX.  He has provided over 35 years of technical and management expertise in the field of aerospace and defense, with over 30 of those years at Eglin Air Force Base.
Brad Walker, Torch President, stated, "Mr. Burkett is a distinguished leader supporting a vast array of Air Force programs. He is a tremendous asset to the success of our customers, a leader of our employee-owners, and a servant to the Northwest Florida community. We know his experience and dedication to the mission will continue leading Torch forward."
About Sam Burkett:
Mr. Burkett is the senior leader of the Torch Air Force Weapons Group. He received his bachelor’s degree in Computer Science and Statistics from the University of Southern Mississippi, a Master of Science in Systems Engineering from The University of West Florida, a Master of Science in Management from Troy University, and post-graduate studies in Systems Engineering at the University of Florida.
Mr. Burkett is currently President of the Gulf Coast NDIA and the Chairman of the Emerald Coast Military Affairs Council.  He is a long-term member and has been the Chairman of the Economic Development Council’s Defense Support Initiative (DSI). Mr. Burkett is also a current Board Member for Okaloosa-Walton Career Source, past-President of the Okaloosa/Walton United Way, and past-Vice President of the Gulf Coast Council Boy Scouts of America.  Mr. Burkett served on the Board of Directors for the EDC, the Fort Walton Beach Chamber of Commerce, Children In Crisis, and the Emerald Coast Military Affairs Council.
Burkett has published numerous technical papers/reports and has received numerous awards for excellence throughout his technical career.
TAGS:

--- Page: https://torchtechnologies.com/news/8th-annual-golf-tournament-benefiting-village-of-promise-a-continued-success/ ---

8th Annual Golf Tournament Benefiting Village of Promise A Continued Success
Friday, September 14, 2018
Torch Technologies hosted its 8
th
annual golf tournament on Friday, September 14 at the RTJ Golf Trail at Hampton Cove. The golf tournament hosted 240 players (max capacity) who played on both the River Course and the Highlands Course this year. All proceeds from the event benefited the Village of Promise and its mission to eradicate generational poverty one neighborhood at a time. The Village of Promise helps children of all ages receive support to help them achieve educational success from early childhood in their Infant University program to college and beyond.
The tournament began with an 8:30 shotgun start at the RTJ Golf Trail at Hampton Cove. 60 teams participated in the tournament, enjoying a beautiful day of golf while helping children of all ages receive support to help them achieve educational success- from early childhood in their Infant University program to college and beyond. Through the donations of the players, sponsors, and a contribution from Torch, Torch was pleased to present Cofounder Bobbie Bradley and Executive Director Dr. Rachel Ballard with a check for $37, 500 to benefit Village of Promise programs.
President John Watson stated, "At Torch, we believe in giving back to the communities where our employees live and work. By investing in the future of the children in our community, we aim to raise the standard of living for everyone. We are so grateful to our sponsors, participants, and volunteers for sharing that vision with us. We were excited to be able to grow last year's donation of $35,000 that is going to Village of Promise programs. We look forward to continuing our partnership with Village of Promise in support of their invaluable programs."
Village of Promise
- Village of Promise serves the needs of children and families from cradle to college to career in distressed neighborhoods. Education, health, enrichment programs and family support services are simply what they do to help each child succeed in school. Their initial efforts are focused in the neighborhood surrounding University Place Elementary School, Montview Elementary School, Westlawn Middle School and Butler High School. To learn more about the Village of Promise go to
www.villagepromise.com
TAGS:
Company Culture

--- Page: https://torchtechnologies.com/news/torch-technologies-ranked-on-inc-5000-list-for-12th-consecutive-year/ ---

Torch Technologies Ranked on Inc. 5000 List for 12th Consecutive Year
Wednesday, August 15, 2018
For the 12
th
consecutive year,
Torch Technologies
, a 100% employee-owned technology services and solutions company headquartered in Huntsville, has been ranked on the
Inc. 5000
list. Ranked at #3,397 this year, Torch is the only Huntsville-based company that has been on the list for 12 consecutive years, and the largest of only two companies in Alabama to make the list 12 or more years. This year's list required a three-year growth of 57% to rank #5000.
Inc.
Media President and Editor in Chief remarked, "Needless to say, making the list gets harder every year as your starting base grows. Of the tens of thousands of companies that have applied to the Inc. 5000 over the years, only a fraction have made the list more than once. A mere tenth of a percent have made the list 12 times."
Torch continues to maintain consistent growth, posting revenue growth of 113 percent in the three-year measurement period. Of the 24 Huntsville-based companies on this year's list, Torch had the highest revenue for 2017 with $349.1M.
Torch President John Watson stated, "We are proud that Torch has again been recognized on the most prestigious ranking of the fastest-growing private companies in America. We attribute our success to our employee-owners and their continued commitment to our company, to our customers, and to the Warfighter."
TAGS:
Company Growth

--- Page: https://torchtechnologies.com/news/torch-awarded-amcom-g4-environmental-task-order/ ---

Torch Awarded AMCOM G4 Environmental Task Order
Tuesday, October 20, 2020
Torch Technologies is pleased to announce the recent award of a $27M task order by the US Army Aviation and Missile Command (AMCOM) to provide technical support to AMCOM G4. The task order has a 5-year period of performance and will be executed primarily at Redstone Arsenal in Huntsville, AL.
The Torch-led team will provide expertise that minimizes AMCOM's environmental footprint and ensure all employees are provided with a quality facility while also ensuring property accountability. The Torch team will provide technical expertise in the areas of weapons system acquisition, pollution prevention, hazardous material (HAZMAT) minimization, process analysis, facilities engineering, master planning/programming and real property, compliance, logistics, audit readiness and remediation.
"The AMCOM G4 award allows Torch to continue applying our environmental engineering and research skills as a prime contractor to our customers," said Torch President and CEO John Watson. "We are honored to support this effort at Redstone Arsenal and the AMCOM mission worldwide." The Torch team will provide world-class environmental research and engineering technologies to meet current and emerging environmental concerns for AMCOM and the Warfighter.
TAGS:
Contracts

--- Page: https://torchtechnologies.com/news/torch-technologies-supports-ktech-snap-on-tool/ ---

Torch Technologies Supports KTECH Snap-On Tool
Wednesday, September 06, 2023
Torch is thrilled to provide a
$51,000 gift to KTECH to support their Snap-On training!
KTECH is hands-on, interactive, one-on-one instruction connecting students to jobs. KTECH is now offering new Snap-on industrial certifications for students. This tool will support the school’s mission to deliver essential job skills employers are looking for.
Snap-on makes premium hand and power tools used by professionals who need the best quality tools to perform work where second best is not an option. In addition to learning new skills, training and certification in Snap-on products can help students stand out at hiring time.
“We are excited to be providing the seeds to develop a training program that will provide the path to good jobs that will lift up the people who complete the program and our communities where they live,” said Bill Roark, Torch Technologies CEO.
Learn more
HERE
.
TAGS:

--- Page: https://torchtechnologies.com/news/?page=10 ---



--- Page: https://torchtechnologies.com/news/torch-announces-new-learning-partnership-with-athens-state-university/ ---

Torch Announces New Learning Partnership with Athens State University
Wednesday, November 30, 2022
Our employee-owners had the opportunity to learn more about their expanding computer science and cybersecurity programs. The learning partnerships are designed to assist our employee-owners and their immediate family members in achieving their educational goals in career-appropriate disciplines through accessible online and traditional classroom settings and an affordable, low-cost tuition structure.
The unique tuition structure approach is designed to extend Athens State’s outreach in recruiting new students while serving to meet the relevant workforce readiness needs of employers in the state of Alabama and beyond.
We look forward to our future with this great University!
TAGS:
Community

--- Page: https://torchtechnologies.com/news/asme-names-torch-outstanding-mechanical-engineering-firm/ ---

ASME Names Torch Outstanding Mechanical Engineering Firm
Friday, February 23, 2018
Torch Technologies is proud to announce it has been chosen by the American Society of Mechanical Engineers (ASME), North Alabama Section (NAS), as the Outstanding Mechanical Engineering Firm for 2018. In selecting the firm of the year, the NAS considers engineering accomplishment, milestones, research, and contracts that impact the Huntsville/Tennessee Valley.
Torch President John Watson stated, "We are honored to receive this recognition during Engineers Week, and we have our employee-owners to thank for our continued success. Our engineers continue to strive to deliver outstanding solutions and technologies to our customer, and we take great pride in the work that we do supporting the Warfighter."
TAGS:
Company Culture

--- Page: https://torchtechnologies.com/news/torch-becomes-public-benefit-corporation/ ---

Torch Becomes Public Benefit Corporation
Monday, October 02, 2023
Torch Technologies, Inc., a subsidiary of Starfish Holdings, Inc., has elected to become a Public Benefit Corporation. Our goal in making this change is to more deeply embed the commitments we have always had into our formal legal structure.
Becoming a Public Benefit Corporation is a significant and impactful change in the legal language which provides guidance into the governance of a corporation.  As such, and in keeping with our core values and past practices, we submitted this change to a vote of our employee-owners.  Delaware law only requires a majority vote of the shares to enact a change to a Public Benefit Corporation.  Our employee-owners voted to approve the change at a super-majority of almost 90% for both shares and people.  The level of engagement and enthusiastic support of our employee-owners for this change will result in long-term value for our customers and our communities.
The impact of this change is that we’ve now expanded the legal responsibilities of our Board of Directors. Our current and, more importantly, future Board of Directors will be required to consider what is best for our broader stakeholders – including our employee-owners, customers, and our communities. Additionally, our Board of Directors and management team will consider our long-term purpose when making strategic decisions.
Here’s a quick summary of our commitments:
- Grow our organization profitably for more than 100 years
- Create an environment that will provide financial stability for our employee-owners, allowing our owners to focus on our customers,
- Support the growth and sustainment of employee-ownership concepts, policies, and implementation
- Support and enhance the well-being of the communities in which we operate.
“We have operated in this manner since we were founded 21 years ago.  This further substantiates our commitment to continue to focus on our employee-owners and the communities where we do business; this is what Don Holder and I had in mind when we started the company”, says Bill Roark, Starfish CEO and Co-Founder of Torch Technologies. “We are proud to be one of the first Defense Contractors in the nation to be a Public Benefit Corporation”, says Brad Walker, President of Torch.  “We take pride in leading the way in taking care of our employee-owners, customers, and communities”, says John Watson, President of Starfish.
About Public Benefit Corporations: Unlike conventional corporations, whose primary interest is maximizing shareholder value, public benefit corporations are required to balance stakeholders' interests, the interests of those who are involved and affected by the corporation (such as employees and customers), as well as the advancement of their intended public benefits such as supporting our community and the organizations that make it a better place to live.  Find more information at
https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Benefit_corporation
.
About Torch Technologies:
Founded in October 2002, Torch Technologies, Inc. (Torch) is a 100% employee-owned EvergreenTM ESOP company dedicated to quality technical services, competitive costs, and ethical business practices. Torch has received both national and local recognition for its business performance, workplace environment, and ethical business practices. In 2020, Torch became the only four-time recipient of the Better Business Bureau’s Torch Award for Business Ethics in the North Alabama region. Torch was recognized as the 2021 ESOP Company of the Year by the New South Chapter of The ESOP Association for a second time, with previous recognition in 2018. Additionally, Torch was selected as a recipient of the 2021 James S. Cogswell Outstanding Industrial Security Achievement Award by the Defense Counterintelligence and Security Agency (DCSA). Washington Technology also listed Torch in its annual “Top 100” Government Contractors ranking for the ninth consecutive year, and Bloomberg Government listed Torch in its annual “Top 200” ranking for the sixth consecutive year in 2022. Torch was named one of the “Best Workplaces in Colorado Springs” by The Colorado Springs Gazette for the second consecutive year in 2021 and selected for the Colorado Springs Business Journal “Best in Business” award for the second consecutive year in 2022. Most recently, Torch was named one of the Best Workplaces in Consulting & Professional Services for the seventh consecutive year by Great Place to Work, and Great Place to Work and Fortune named Torch one of the country’s Best Workplaces for Millennials for the fourth year. For more information, visit the company’s website at
www.TorchTechnologies.com
About Starfish Holdings:
Starfish Holdings is a parent company that was established to oversee subsidiaries, and currently has three subsidiaries: Torch Technologies, Inc., Freedom Real Estate & Capital LLC, and SIMVANA LLC. For more information, visit the company’s website at
www.StarfishHoldings.com
TAGS:

--- Page: https://torchtechnologies.com/news/trisha-rogers-joins-torch-board-of-directors/ ---

Trisha Rogers Joins Torch Board of Directors
Friday, January 01, 2021
Torch Technologies (Torch) recently announced that Trisha Rogers has joined the Torch Board of Directors. Ms. Rogers brings over 30 years of experience in the national intelligence and space communities with the government and industry. She served on the Board of Directors for TMA for four years after retiring from Scitor Corporation in 2009. While at Scitor, Rogers served as Vice President and Director of the National Services Sector with responsibilities for SETA support to a wide variety of customers across the intelligence community. In addition, she was Scitor's Corporate Staff Director for the Information Systems, Operations Support, and Facilities/Real Estate teams. Prior to joining Scitor, Rogers was the President of Welkin Associates, a SETA company supporting the intelligence community that was eventually acquired by Nichols Research. Rogers also spent 13 years in government service as an NSA employee and US Navy Civilian in a variety of positions in SIGINT programs providing support in the areas of acquisition, program management, integration and test for ground processing systems and system calibration, operations, and payload engineering for satellites. She also served as the Defense Legislative Assistant to Senator Joseph Lieberman under the Navy's Legislative Fellowship Program. Rogers has a B.S. in Business Management with a concentration in Finance and a minor in Computer Science from Furman University.
TAGS:
Leadership

--- Page: https://torchtechnologies.com/news/torch-technologies-breaks-ground-on-new-lab-and-solutions-facility/ ---

Torch Breaks Ground on New Technology Integration and Prototyping Center
Friday, April 13, 2018
Today Torch Technologies announced a major construction project to build a Technology Integration and Prototyping Center. The announcement was celebrated with a groundbreaking event at the site of the new facility with dignitaries Governor Kay Ivey, Congressman Mo Brooks, and Mayor Tommy Battle speaking at the event. Torch's sister company, Freedom Real Estate & Capital, LLC, recently acquired the land located on the corner of Chris Dr. and Vermont Rd. Torch has partnered with Freedom Real Estate & Capital to develop the property and Torch will serve as the anchor tenant of the new facility. The project development partners include Matheny Goldmon Architecture and Turner Construction.
The construction will include the construction of a new 35,000+ SF lab and solutions facility. Construction of this new building will allow Torch to undertake projects of greater complexity, "ranging from developing instruments that will completely change how warhead testing is accomplished to re-engineering products that protect our nation," said Torch President John Watson.
The groundbreaking event took place at the lot on the corner of Chris Dr. and Vermont Rd. Next, a reception followed at The Freedom Center located at 4090 South Memorial Parkway. John Watson stated, "As a native Alabamian - born and raised in rural South Alabama, educated at Auburn in Central Alabama, and working a large portion of my career in North Alabama - I am sincerely thankful for the partnership that we have with the city and state, as we all work together to improve the standard of living in our community."
TAGS:
Growth

--- Page: https://torchtechnologies.com/news/torch-attends-whistlestop-bbq-festival-2024/ ---

Torch Attends WhistleStop BBQ Festival 2024
Tuesday, October 22, 2024
WhistleStop 2024 was a huge success! We had an amazing weekend alongside our fellow employee-owners and families, all while supporting Early Works. And to top it all off, we took home 1st Place in the People's Choice Award for our BBQ!
TAGS:

--- Page: https://torchtechnologies.com/news/torch-receives-top-tiger-award-for-fourth-year/ ---

Torch Receives "Top Tiger" Award for Fourth Year
Friday, April 06, 2018
At the fourth annual Top Tiger event held on April 6
th
by the Auburn University Raymond J. Harbert College of Business, Business Alabama magazine, and Warren Averett, Torch Technologies came in third in the large business category. Qualifying companies must have been founded, owned or led by an Auburn Alumni and awards were selected based on a percentage of revenue growth over the past three years.
Torch was in the large business category with more than ($20M) in annual revenue. This is the fourth consecutive year that Torch has been recognized as one of the fastest-growing companies founded, owned, or led by Auburn University alumni. Top companies, including Torch, will be featured in Business Alabama.
See the full listing and rankings of the
2018 honorees
.
TAGS:
Company Growth

--- Page: https://torchtechnologies.com/news/torch-technologies-ranked-100-on-the-nceo’s-2023-employee-ownership-100-list/ ---

Torch Technologies Ranked on the NCEO’s 2023 Employee Ownership 100 List
Friday, December 01, 2023
Torch Technologies is pleased to announce that we have been added to the National Center for Employee Ownership (NCEO) 2023 Employee Ownership 100 list. NCEO is a nonprofit research and membership organization supporting the employee ownership community since 1981.
The Employee Ownership 100 list includes the largest broad-based employee-owned companies in the US that the NCEO could verify using governmental or other credible third-party sources. Most are ESOP-owned, and one is a cooperative. To be on the list, companies must be at least 50% employee-owned; most on the list are 100%. Collectively, these broad-based plans employ close to 685,000 people.
Employee ownership generally and employee stock ownership plans (ESOPs) more specifically have a long history of showing tangible benefits to both companies and employees while creating a viable model for business succession. In 2019, total contributions to ESOP accounts were $89 billion (or an average of $6,420 in contributions per participant). The average ESOP account balance is more than double the average 401(k) account balance at a closely matched non-ESOP company offering only a 401(k) plan; in addition, a large majority of ESOP companies offer a 401(k) plan alongside the ESOP, further amplifying the benefits.
Torch Technologies President Brad Walker said, “This recognition is a testament to our incredible team's dedication, hard work, and shared commitment. Employee ownership has been a cornerstone of our success, fostering a culture of collaboration, innovation, and shared accomplishment. As we celebrate this achievement, we reaffirm our commitment to empowering our employees and building a future where everyone has a stake in our collective success. Together, we will continue to grow, thrive, and light the pathway to freedom.”
TAGS:

--- Page: https://torchtechnologies.com/news/colorado-springs-hosts-6th-annual-charity-golf-tournament/ ---

Colorado Springs Hosts 6th Annual Charity Golf Tournament
Friday, October 11, 2024
ur Torch office in Colorado Springs hosted its 6th Annual Charity Golf Tournament in Colorado Springs benefiting Safe Passage. They were able to raise $10,000 for the program. Each year Safe Passage serves more than a thousand children and non-offending caregivers during abuse investigations.
A majority of the children they serve have suffered sexual abuse. Safe Passage is the authoritative regional resource for child sexual assault services and works with medical, counseling, and law enforcement services and agencies to resolve abuse.
These funds will provide 100+ hours of therapy, medical treatment, home supplies, clothing, and much more to children affected by abuse in Colorado Springs and the surrounding area.
The tournament was held at the Bear Dance Golf Course, in nearby Larkspur, Colorado. 144 players participated in the sold-out event. Torch recruited several DoD and local community sponsors, including Edward Jones, ERC, HTS, MTSI, CSPD, Colorado College, Blattner Law Firm, Gasper Law Group, and Synergy One Lending.
TAGS:
Community

--- Page: https://torchtechnologies.com/news/starfish-holdings-expands-management-team/ ---

Starfish Holdings Welcomes CIO
Wednesday, March 27, 2024
Starfish Holdings (Starfish), the parent company of Torch Technologies, Freedom Real Estate, and SIMVANA today announced the appointment of Joe Pierce as Chief Information Officer (CIO).
“As the companies within the Starfish portfolio continue to grow, so do the needs of Starfish. This role is key to enabling Starfish to fulfill its purpose of growing the retirement portfolios of the employee-owners of our subsidiaries,” said Starfish President John Watson. “We are excited to welcome Joe to the Starfish team. He brings the experience, knowledge, and dedication required to help us take Starfish to the next level.”
“As a benefit corporation and Certified Evergreen™ company, Starfish has committed to make a positive impact on society and make 100 percent employee-ownership sustainable for the next 100 years,” said Bill Roark, CEO, Starfish Holdings. “Joe will help us take Starfish to the next level and is essential to achieving these goals.”
Pierce brings approximately 35 years of experience with companies supporting Department of Defense programs, including McDonnell Douglas, Boeing, Lockheed Martin, Teledyne Brown Engineering, and Teledyne Technologies. He joins Starfish from Teledyne Technologies, where he served as senior director of strategic realization and was responsible for ensuring that the implementation of technology was aligned with business strategy. Pierce holds a Bachelor of Science in Electrical Engineering Technology from Murray State University.
In his role as CIO, Pierce will lead the technology strategy and drive innovation and digital transformation across the Starfish multi-company enterprise consisting of both defense and commercial companies. He will be responsible for overseeing all aspects of information technology (IT) operations, including infrastructure, systems, applications, and cybersecurity in a multi-member holding company structure.
About Starfish Holdings Starfish Holdings, Inc.
(Starfish) is the parent company of Torch Technologies, Freedom Real Estate & Capital, LLC, and SIMVANA. The company is an S-corp owned by the Starfish Employee Stock Ownership Plan (ESOP) and Trust with a focus to grow the retirement portfolios of the employee-owners of its subsidiaries. Starfish is committed to remaining an Evergreen enterprise through sustainable processes, ensuring employee ownership and financial wellbeing, supporting community wellbeing, enabling customer and partner success, all while operating with integrity. To learn more, visit starfishholdings.com.
TAGS:

--- Page: https://torchtechnologies.com/news/rita-hill-joins-company-as-director-of-supplier-outreach/ ---

Rita Hill Joins Company as Director of Supplier Outreach
Monday, June 17, 2024
HUNTSVILLE, Ala. And DAYTON, Ohio, June 17, 2024 –
Torch Technologies, one of the nation’s leading defense contractors, today announced the appointment of Rita Hill as Director of Supplier Outreach. In this role, she will lead small business outreach, subcontractor assessments, partnering strategies, and capture for long-lead strategic business opportunities. She will also be responsible for business development and capture activities in support of strategic growth initiatives including expanding Torch’s presence in the Dayton, Ohio market.
“We are thrilled to welcome Rita to the Torch team,” said Torch Technologies President Brad Walker. “Rita is a well-known, trusted name in the defense industry. She will play a key role in growing the Torch presence in DoD National Intelligence Center markets, like Dayton, and expanding our core capabilities into new markets.”
Hill brings over 30 years’ experience in systems engineering, Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance (ISR) systems, program management and executive leadership in the defense industry. She joined Torch from Radiance Technologies where she most recently served as Executive Vice President for the National Security Sector. In this role, she led all aspects of the business operations including profit and loss, strategy, growth, customer relations, employee engagement and program execution. Prior to Radiance, Hill spent 20 years with Science Applications International Corporation (SAIC), (now Leidos), previously serving as Vice President for Advanced Analytics.  She holds a B.S. in Electrical Engineering from the University of Alabama in Huntsville and a M.S. in Engineering Management from the University of Dayton.
About the Torch Technologies
Torch Technologies is a 100 percent employee-owned business dedicated to providing superior research, development, and engineering services to the Department of Defense. The services we provide directly support the men and women who serve our country. Torch is part of the Starfish Holdings family of businesses that also includes Freedom Real Estate & Capital, LLC, and SIMVANA. To learn more, visit
TorchTechnologies.com
.
TAGS:
Leadership

--- Page: https://torchtechnologies.com/news/torch-technologies-supports-lawton-community-with-non-profit-donations/ ---

Torch Technologies Supports Lawton Community with Non-Profit Donations
Wednesday, October 30, 2024
TORCH TECHNOLOGIES SUPPORTS LAWTON COMMUNITY WITH NON-PROFIT DONATIONS
Might CDRC and Lawton Mobile Meals Receive $10,000 gifts
LAWTON, Okla. and Huntsville, Ala., October 29, 2024
– Torch Technologies, one of the nation’s leading defense contractors, today announced $10,000 donations to Might Community Development & Resource Center (CDRC) and Lawton Mobile Means, two nonprofit organizations in the Lawton/Ft. Sill community. “We are proud to be a part of the Lawton/Ft. Sill communities. Torch Technologies has been a tenant of the Fires Innovation Science and Technology Accelerator (FISTA) since January 2023, and we opened the lab that hosts the Soldier Touchpoint Research Center Laboratory earlier this summer,” said Torch President Brad Walker. “As a 100% employee-owned company and Public Benefit Corporation, we are committed to giving back to the community. Working together with non-profits like Might CDRC and Lawton Mobile Meals, we can strengthen our community by helping to meet the needs of its people.” Might CDRC is a faith-based, non-profit organization that works to stabilize the economic and basic needs of families; empower adolescents through encouragement, respect, responsibility, academia, and social skills; and provide quality childcare for children six weeks to 12 years old. The mission of Lawton Mobile Meals is to counteract malnutrition among the elderly and/or disabled homebound persons by delivering one nutritious meal a day/five days a week.
For More Information Contact:
Tammie Dodson
Director of Communications
Starfish Holdings
256-932-6079
tammie.dodson@starfishholdings.com
TAGS:
Community

--- Page: https://torchtechnologies.com/news/starfish-holdings-announces-changes-to-management-team/ ---

Starfish Holdings Announces Changes To Management Team
Wednesday, April 03, 2024
Starfish Holdings (Starfish), the parent company of Torch Technologies (Torch), Freedom Real Estate & Capital, LLC (Freedom), and SIMVANA today announced that Co-Founder and CEO Bill Roark has stepped down as CEO and has assumed the role of Chairman of the Board. Starfish President John Watson has been promoted to CEO.
Roark’s move to Chairman of the Board will enable him to dedicate more time to the operations of Freedom, a wholly owned subsidiary of Starfish. Freedom is experiencing rapid growth and has recently announced two new development projects. These include a 54,000 square-foot, Class A office building at Hays Farm, the first of its kind in south Huntsville in the last three decades, and a 105,000 square-foot facility, the first of five buildings, in the Freedom Industrial Park in north Huntsville.
“Long-term succession planning is critical for companies to maintain their growth trajectory, “said Starfish Co-Founder and CEO Bill Roark. “Growth from within is critical to maintaining the special culture we have created across our portfolio of companies. John has done an exceptional job of leading Torch while serving as president of both Starfish and SIMVANA. He is the perfect choice for CEO and will continue the success of Starfish and our portfolio of companies moving forward.”
As CEO of Starfish, Watson will provide strategic leadership and assume day-to-day operations of the company. A key element of his position will be balancing the opportunities and risks for the Employee Stock Ownership Program which serves all the Starfish portfolio companies.
I am excited to assume the role of CEO for Starfish Holdings,” said Starfish President John Watson. “I look forward to seeking more opportunities where our portfolio companies can work together to provide our customers with even greater value.” In addition to his new role as CEO of Starfish, Watson will continue to serve as President of SIMVANA. The role of Torch President Brad Walker will remain unchanged.
TAGS:

--- Page: https://torchtechnologies.com/news/torch-makes-washington-technology-top-100-government-contractors-list-for-fourth-year/ ---

Torch Makes Washington Technology "Top 100 Government Contractors" List for Fourth Year
Monday, June 18, 2018
Washington Technology recently released its annual "Top 100" list and Torch Technologies was ranked #61 of the Top 100. The list ranks the largest government contractors by their prime contract dollars in IT, systems integrations, telecommunications, engineering and professional services. Torch, a 100% employee-owned small business, has made this list for the past four years, ranking #86 in 2015, #75 in 2016, #68 in 2017, and moved up 7 spots in this year's ranking. Torch was the highest ranked Huntsville-headquartered company named to this year's list. Torch completed 2017 with over $348M in total revenue.
Torch President John Watson stated, "On behalf of our employee-owners, we are honored by the continued confidence of our services and solutions DoD customers that has resulted in Torch being recognized for the fourth year as one of the largest professional services prime contractors to the Federal Government."
See the complete list at
Washington Technology 2018 Top 100
.
TAGS:
Growth

--- Page: https://torchtechnologies.com/news/torch-makes-washington-technology-top-100-government-contractors-list-for-sixth-year/ ---

Torch Makes Washington Technology "Top 100 Government Contractors" List for Sixth Year
Wednesday, September 30, 2020
Washington Technology recently released its annual "Top 100" list and Torch Technologies was ranked #54 of the Top 100. The list ranks the largest government contractors by their prime contract dollars in IT, telecommunications, consulting, professional services, engineering and other technology driven products and services.  Torch, a 100% employee owned business, has made this list for the past six years, ranking #86 in 2015, #75 in 2016, #68 in 2017, #61 in 2018, #59 in 2019, and moved up five spots in this year's ranking. Torch was the highest ranked Huntsville-headquartered company named to this year's list. Torch completed 2019 with over $513M in total revenue.
Torch President and CEO John Watson stated, "On behalf of our employee-owners, we are honored that the confidence placed in us by our services and solutions DoD customers has resulted in Torch being recognized for the sixth year as one of the largest professional services prime contractors to the Federal Government."
See the complete list at
Washington Technology 2020 Top 100.
TAGS:
Company Growth

--- Page: https://torchtechnologies.com/news/torch-scholarship-“iron-bowl”-challenge/ ---

Torch Scholarship “Iron Bowl” Challenge
Monday, November 28, 2022
Torch employee-owners participated in our Auburn vs. the University of Alabama, Huntsville (UAH) scholarship fund challenge. This challenge was kicked off at our 20th anniversary tailgate party and ended just in time for Iron Bowl weekend here in Alabama.
John Watson, Torch President, stated, “It is good to give back and pay it forward.” The top employee-owner fundraiser for each school received an Auburn University football signed by Coach Tommy Tuberville, or a basketball signed by the UAH Head Coach John Shulman and all basketball players, respectfully.
Thanks to the generosity of our employee-owners the base goal for each school was met, triggering a corporate match of an additional $7,500 per school. Combined, a total of $44,080 in scholarship funds were raised to support the next generation of scholars. We are thrilled to support these two great universities and an even better cause!
NOTE: In the spirit of friendly competition, UAH did come out on top during the challenge for the total amount received per school. “A bet is a bet,” said Watson (Auburn alumni) as he donned the UAH cap at the winner reveal.
TAGS:
Community

--- Page: https://torchtechnologies.com/news/bill-roark-to-release-book-in-may/ ---

Bill Roark to Release Book in May
Monday, April 01, 2024
Why would you want to work at a company you don’t own?
Built with Purpose
is the story of Bill Roark realizing his dream. After losing his job and vowing to never experience that again, Roark, along with a team of talented entrepreneurial engineers, set out to challenge the status quo by building a company whose success benefits everyone who works there—not just the founders. Every single employee earns the opportunity to become an owner on their first day.
From its evolution as a single entity, Torch Technologies has evolved into a growing family of businesses operating under the umbrella of Starfish Holdings. (When a starfish loses a limb, it can grow another one). This business model has created substantial wealth for hundreds of its employee-owners, who have also been empowered to make substantial contributions to their community. Just as important, the Torch story demonstrates how a business can be built on a foundation that will allow the business to persist and thrive for 100 years or more. The traditional way of growing a business, where just a handful of founders get wealthy, is outdated.
The Torch story validates that there is a better way to build a business—one where everyone is truly engaged and invested in working toward the long-term success of the company—while also keeping generosity as a core value. At Torch, where employees feel secure in their work, they have time and energy to give to others in their community. Only a few other companies owned by their employees have achieved the same level of success as Torch/Starfish. This real-life case study stands apart from other business books by academics or entrepreneurs who have built successful companies in more traditional ways. Business leaders, public servants looking for ways to tackle the growing wealth gap in the U.S., and readers of all genres will rethink what a business is capable of after reading about how Bill Roark’s dream was born and sustained—and the difference it has made for the many who share in its purpose.
Bill Roark is the cofounder of Torch Technologies, Inc. (Torch), the founder and CEO of Starfish Holdings. Inc, the parent company of Torch, and the founder of Freedom Real Estate & Capital, LLC. Bill has also been involved as a business coach in a local brewery, Yellowhammer Brewery, (www.yellowhammerbrewery.com). Over the years, he and his wife Brenda have made multiple investments to help the brewery grow and expand. He has also helped them expand into distilling a fine bourbon and other spirits. While he neither brews nor distills, he remains an active business advisor/owner. Yellowhammer brews are local favorites.
It is slated for release on May 13, 2024 from Greenleaf Book Group.
TAGS:

--- Page: https://torchtechnologies.com/news/torch-receives-fortune-best-workplaces-for-millennials-2022/ ---

Torch Receives Fortune Best Workplaces for Millennials 2022
Monday, July 18, 2022
Consulting firm Great Place to Work® and Fortune magazine have named Torch one of the country’s 2022 Best Workplaces for Millennials, ranked #78 on the Large Companies list. The winning companies were selected based on anonymous responses to the Trust Index© survey, Great Place to Work’s employee assessment survey that was completed by employee-owners in the summer of 2022. Torch also received this award in 2018, 2020 and 2021. In the survey, employees rated more than 60 elements of their experience on the job. Eighty-five percent of the evaluation is based on what millennials say about their experiences of trust and reaching their full human potential as part of their organization. The remaining 15 percent of the rank is based on an assessment of millennials’ daily experiences of innovation, the company’s values, and the effectiveness of their leaders. Great Place to Work partnered with Fortune magazine to publish the listings. A link to the listing is provided below.
TAGS:

--- Page: https://torchtechnologies.com/news/torch-named-one-of-the-2020-best-workplaces-for-millennials-by-great-place-to-work-and-fortune/ ---

Torch Named One of the 2020 Best Workplaces for Millennials by Great Place to Work® and FORTUNE
Thursday, August 06, 2020
Great Place to Work has once again honored Torch Technologies (Torch) as one of the
2020 Best Workplaces for Millennials
. The ranking considered feedback representing over 4.9 million employees working at Great Place to Work-Certified organizations. Great Place to Work, a global people analytics and consulting firm, evaluated more than 60 elements of team members' experience on the job. Eighty-five percent of the evaluation is based on what millennials say about their experiences of trust and reaching their full human potential as part of their organization. The remaining 15 percent of the rank is based on an assessment of millennials' daily experiences of innovation, the company's values, and the effectiveness of their leaders. Torch took the No. 72 spot on the Large Companies list.
"At Torch, more than a third of our employee-owners are millennials who will help carry the torch for our company's future endeavors," says Torch President and CEO John Watson. "It is an honor to work alongside bright employee-owners from every generation as we work together for the benefit of our customers and our company."
The Best Workplaces for Millennials stand out for their unique, innovative cultures, which helps them attract and retain Millennial employees. Great Place to Work evaluated team members' experience on the job, including employee pride in the organization's community impact, belief that their work makes a difference, and feeling their work has special meaning. Torch has achieved this culture through programs including the Society of Torch Emerging Professionals (STEPs), a voluntary internal group that currently has more than 100 members and focuses on professional development, networking, and community outreach opportunities for early career professionals. Torch has also implemented mentorship programs, a Leadership Book Club, training opportunities, and more.
"For many years, organizations have put forth considerable effort towards attracting and retaining millennial talent" said Michael Bush, CEO of Great Place to Work. "The Best Workplaces on this list have created cultures where its youngest employees experience not only an environment where they can grow professionally and personally, but also find a deeper sense of purpose in their work. As we prepare for a large influx of young professionals from Generation Z to enter the work force for the first time, these organizations have distinguished themselves as the leaders in attracting and developing the leaders of tomorrow."
The Best Workplaces for Millennials is one of a
series of rankings by Great Place to Work
and FORTUNE based on employee feedback from Great Place to Work-Certified™ organizations. Torch was also ranked a Best Workplace for Millennials in 2018 by Great Place to Work and FORTUNE, as well as a Best Workplace in Consulting & Professionals Services in 2016-2020, in addition to a Best Small and Medium Workplace by Great Place to Work and FORTUNE in 2016-2018.
TAGS:
Company Culture

--- Page: https://torchtechnologies.com/news/torch-breast-friends-raises-over-$21,000-for-the-liz-hurley-breast-cancer-fund/ ---

Torch Breast Friends Raises over $21,000 for the Liz Hurley Breast Cancer Fund
Tuesday, October 22, 2024
Torch Breast Friends was honored to raise over $21,000 for the Liz Hurley Breast Cancer Fund at Huntsville Hospital Foundation! The run proved to be a tremendous success, drawing in thousands of participants on a beautiful morning dedicated to raising awareness for breast cancer. Torch Breast Friends placed first for the large team fundraiser and Sue Clark placed first for Top Individual Fundraiser!
Proceeds from the 2024 Liz Hurley Ribbon Run will provide for the top priority needs for Huntsville Hospital Breast Center, including the latest diagnostic technology. This new, high-tech equipment will reduce wait times so patients have access to the diagnostic screening they need, detecting breast cancer as soon as possible.
A special shout-out to our amazing cancer survivors, team members and donors. Every mile and every dollar make a difference!
TAGS:
Community

--- Page: https://torchtechnologies.com/news/torch-earns-great-place-to-work-certification/ ---

Torch Earns Great Place to Work Certification
Wednesday, June 21, 2023
We are thrilled to announce that Torch has once again earned the designation as a Great Place to Work-Certified™ company. We appreciate our employee-owners for taking the time to complete the anonymous Trust Index Survey conducted by Great Place to Work®, the global authority on workplace culture, employee experience, and leadership behaviors.
This national recognition of Torch is greatly appreciated, but more importantly, this survey allows us to hear from you and work toward continual improvement that will benefit all Torch employee-owners. As a 100% employee-owned company, we understand that our people are our greatest asset and therefore our greatest investment. Every member of our Torch family is connected in some way to providing essential support to our country and the warfighter.
Congratulations, and thank you for making Torch a great place to work!
TAGS:
Awards and Recognition

--- Page: https://torchtechnologies.com/news/torch-accepts-2024-community-partner-award/ ---

Torch Accepts 2024 Community Partner Award
Thursday, February 29, 2024
We would like to express our heartfelt appreciation to the
Community Foundation of Greater Huntsville
for recognizing Torch with the 2024 Community Partner Award! We're proud to continue partnering with the Community Foundation in their mission of mobilizing generosity to improve quality of life in our North Alabama community!
Learn more here.
TAGS:
Awards and Recognition
Community

--- Page: https://torchtechnologies.com/news/?page=4 ---



--- Page: https://torchtechnologies.com/news/torch-supports-huntsville-havocs-military-appreciation-night/ ---

Torch Supports Huntsville Havoc's Military Appreciation Night
Tuesday, April 09, 2024
Torch proudly supported the Huntsville Havoc's Military Appreciation Night on April 5th. Together, we raised an impressive $64,510 for Still Serving Veterans! Additionally, our contribution enabled the Havoc to donate 2,000 tickets to Still Serving Veterans for distribution leading up to the game, all at no cost. Giving back to the Huntsville community and supporting our veterans is at the heart of what we do at Torch!
TAGS:

--- Page: https://torchtechnologies.com/news/torch-and-freedom-real-estate-support-wellstone-new-facilities/ ---

Torch and Freedom Real Estate Donate to WellStone
Thursday, February 08, 2024
Torch and our sister company,
Freedom Real Estate & Capital, LLC
, were privileged to tour
WellStone
's new facilities, which include the medical room donated by Freedom and the $50,000 multi-purpose room donated by Torch!
We are honored to stand alongside Wellstone in their mission to provide treatment for children, adolescents, and adults grappling with mental illness, substance abuse, and various challenges to their health and well-being.
Learn more:
https://wellstone.com/
TAGS:
Community

--- Page: https://torchtechnologies.com/news/torch-technologies-named-esop-company-of-the-year-for-second-time/ ---

Torch Named ESOP Company of the Year for Second Time
Tuesday, April 13, 2021
Torch Technologies (Torch)
, a 100% employee-owned technology services and solutions company headquartered in Huntsville, Alabama, is proud to have been recognized by the New South Chapter of The ESOP Association as the ESOP Company of the Year for a second time. Torch was recognized as the 2021 recipient of the award at the virtual New South Chapter Spring Conference after also receiving this award in 2018.
This award is given to an ESOP company that shows a strong commitment to employee ownership through its involvement with The ESOP Association and its programs, its clear communication with employees, and its commitment to The ESOP Association's vision of endorsing employee participation,  wealth creation, and individual dignity and worth.
The
New South Chapter
is one of 18 chapters of The ESOP Association that provides educational services and resources to member companies in Tennessee, Mississippi, Alabama, Georgia, and Florida. Torch will represent the New South Chapter in the upcoming national award competition for National ESOP Company of the Year, which will be announced at The ESOP Association's National Conference in Washington, DC.
"We are thrilled to be recognized as the ESOP Company of the Year representing the five Southeastern states of the New South Chapter," Torch President and CEO John Watson stated. "When Torch became 100% employee owned in 2011, we committed to creating a unique employee ownership culture. Our team always says 'it's about all of us' and our recognition by the New South Chapter for a second time is a true testament to the fact that it truly is about all of us when employee owners work together for the good of the company, the community, and one another."
TAGS:
ESOP

--- Page: https://torchtechnologies.com/news/?page=3 ---



--- Page: https://torchtechnologies.com/news/torch-named-one-of-the-best-workplaces-in-colorado-springs-for-second-consecutive-year/ ---

Torch Named One of the Best Workplaces in Colorado Springs for Second Consecutive Year
Friday, December 03, 2021
Torch Technologies (Torch), a 100 percent employee-owned company, is proud to announce that it has been named one of the Best Workplaces in Colorado Springs for the second consecutive year.
The 5
th
annual Best Workplaces event was held as a virtual awards program hosted by the Colorado Springs Gazette on December 2, 2021. The Colorado Springs Gazette partnered with the Colorado Springs Chamber of Commerce, Monster.com, and locally based DataJoe to host this event to recognize organizations whose employees have nominated them as a great place to work. Selections for the Best in Business awards were based on anonymous survey responses completed by employees in the fall of 2021. The anonymous surveys assessed companies' leadership, culture, mission, values, benefits, training, and social responsibility.
The Best Workplaces awards seek to recognize companies that truly understand the essential link between a positive corporate culture and bottom-line performance and growth. Further, the awards program celebrates organizations that cultivate workplace cultures that recruit and retain a strong workforce in the Colorado Springs area.
Torch President and CEO John Watson said, "We are honored to be recognized as one of the Best Workplaces in Colorado Springs for the second consecutive year. We are truly proud to have an incredible team in Colorado Springs who daily show their dedication to our mission, our community and our company."
TAGS:
Leadership

--- Page: https://torchtechnologies.com/news/?page=11 ---



--- Page: https://torchtechnologies.com/news/torch-technologies-to-host-technical-career-fair-wednesday-december-15/ ---

Torch Hosts Technical Career Fair
Wednesday, December 15, 2021
Torch Technologies (Torch), a 100% employee-owned rapidly growing company, hosted a Technical Career Fair on Wednesday, December 15 from 3:00 PM to 7:00 PM at the Torch Technologies Freedom Center, located at 4090 South Memorial Parkway, Huntsville, AL 35802.
While the Technical Career Fair was a great success and attracted many job seekers to learn more about Torch's company culture and career opportunities, Torch continues to seek the best and brightest future employee-owners to fill several open positions. Torch is specifically seeking individuals with technical degrees and 5+ years of relevant experience in the fields of: Engineering (All Disciplines), IT, Math, Physics, Software Development, System Analysis, Cyber Security, and Computer Science. All current positions require U.S. citizenship. Torch has openings in Huntsville, as well as several other locations including Colorado, Detroit, Florida, Maryland, Massachusetts, New Mexico, South Carolina, Texas, Utah, Virginia, and Washington DC. To learn more about our current openings, please visit our
Careers page
.
TAGS:
Growth

--- Page: https://torchtechnologies.com/news/torch-awarded-s3i-oasis-hwil-sos-task-order/ ---

Torch Awarded S3I OASIS HWIL SoS Task Order
Thursday, May 13, 2021
Torch Technologies (Torch) is pleased to announce the award of a $1.065 billion task order by U.S. Army Combat Capabilities Development Command (DEVCOM) Aviation and Missile Center (AvMC) Systems Simulation Software and Integration Directorate (S3I) for Hardware in the Loop (HWIL) Systems of Systems Development, Integration and Testing (HWIL SoS). The task order has a seven-year period of performance and will be executed primarily in Huntsville, Ala.
The Torch team will provide expertise to develop, enhance, evaluate and maintain the current suite of distributed digital simulation, and system of systems unique development facilities for the DEVCOM AvMC S3I Directorate, HWIL/Virtual Simulators Mission Area.
"Torch has supported the DEVCOM AvMC S3I HWIL customers since the early years of the company's founding," said Torch President and CEO John Watson. "This win enables us to continue that support and to help advance technology in weapon systems for the U.S. Army, Missile Defense Agency, and other agencies."
TAGS:
U.S. Army

--- Page: https://torchtechnologies.com/news/torch-receives-colorado-springs-best-in-business-award-2/ ---

Torch Receives Colorado Springs "Best in Business" Award
Friday, July 09, 2021
Torch Technologies is proud to announce that it has been selected for a "Best in Business" award in Colorado Springs. Torch was awarded Bronze in the Best Defense Contractor category.
Selections for the Best in Business awards were based on Colorado Springs Business Journal reader votes for businesses in each category, and the top three companies from each category were awarded.
Torch President and CEO John Watson said, "We are honored to be recognized as a Best in Business in Colorado Springs recipient, especially during what has been an unprecedented time. Great people make up the core of every good company and great people shine during a time of crisis. We are very fortunate to have committed employee-owners who care about our mission, our communities and our company. As COVID restrictions are lifted and we begin a return to normalcy, we trust that our employee-owners will continue to light the pathway for Torch's future successes."
TAGS:
Company Culture

--- Page: https://torchtechnologies.com/news/great-place-to-work-and-fortune-name-torch-technologies-one-of-2018s-best-small-medium-workplaces-for-third-consecutive-year/ ---

Great Place to Work® and FORTUNE Name Torch Technologies One of 2018's Best Small & Medium Workplaces for Third Consecutive Year
Thursday, October 18, 2018
Great Place to Work and FORTUNE have again honored Torch Technologies as one of the
2018 Best Small & Medium Workplaces
. The ranking considered more than 158,000 employee surveys from small and medium-sized companies. Great Place to Work, a global people analytics and consulting firm, evaluated more than 50 elements of team members' experience on the job. These included the extent to which employees trust leaders, the respect with which people are treated, the fairness of workplace decisions, and how much camaraderie there is among the team. Rankings are based on employees' feedback and reward companies who best include all employees, no matter who they are or what they do for the organization. Torch Technologies took the No. 6 spot on the
Best Medium Workplaces
list.
"We are proud of the culture that we have created and been able to maintain at Torch. Our healthy company culture benefits our employee-owners, and thus ultimately benefits our customers, our community, and the warfighter," says Torch President John Watson. "As a 100% employee-owned company, our continued success is because of our loyal and dedicated employee-owners who make our company a great place to work."
The Best Small & Medium Workplaces stand out for excelling in the industry's rapidly-changing marketplace. With Torch's continued growth and success also comes additional responsibility to maintain that culture within the company. Torch has implemented many new programs and resources to educate and empower its employee-owners. One example includes Society of Torch Emerging Professionals (STEPs), an organization founded in response to the rapid growth at Torch. STEPs, with its members, fosters a sense of cohesion across business units and groups, provides professional development opportunities through panels and speakers, provides opportunities for community service and outreach through volunteering and hosting drives for local nonprofit organizations, and provides an avenue for social networking and a sense of community through hosted events.
"When it comes to revenue growth and innovation, the 2018 Best Small & Medium Workplaces continue to outperform their peers making these companies more competitive and helping them secure their position in the marketplace,"
said Michael Bush, CEO of Great Place to Work.
"What these companies do differently than their peers is that they offer a great workplace for all employees, regardless of role or personal traits."
The Best Small & Medium Workplaces list is one of a
series of rankings by Great Place to Work
and FORTUNE based on employee feedback from Great Place to Work-Certified™ organizations. Torch Technologies also was ranked as a Best Medium Workplace by Great Place to Work and FORTUNE in 2016 and 2017, as well as a Best Workplace for Consulting & Professional Services in 2016, 2017, and 2018. Additionally, Torch was ranked as a Best Workplace for Millennials in 2018.
TAGS:
Company Growth

--- Page: https://torchtechnologies.com/news/torch-team-raises-46k-for-2020-huntsville-virtual-heart-walk/ ---

Torch Team Raises $46K for 2020 Huntsville Virtual Heart  Walk
Saturday, June 27, 2020
Torch Team 2019
Torch employee-owners have a heart for giving back to their communities, and although this year's Huntsville Heart Walk was a virtual event due to COVID-19, they still showed their heart for this cause by raising $46,265 for the American Heart Association. Torch employee-owners' participation in the American Heart Association (AHA) Huntsville Heart and Stroke Walk continued this year with 138 members on the virtual Torch Team.
The Torch Team was the largest team, the top fundraising team, and the top fundraising company, raising $46,265 and contributing to the more than $411,781 that was raised by AHA. This year, a Torch employee-owner, Debbie Overcash, was the Top Individual Fundraiser, and Torch's Co-Founder Bill Roark was the second Individual Fundraiser. Despite the challenges of COVID-19, this event was a success and we were proud to be a part of it!
TAGS:
Company Culture

--- Page: https://torchtechnologies.com/news/torch,-starfish,-freedom-present-village-of-promise-with-a-$110,000-donation!/ ---

Torch, Starfish, Freedom Present Village of Promise with a $110,000 donation!
Friday, September 23, 2022
THANK YOU to everyone who came out for our annual golf tournament benefiting Village of Promise!
Through the combined generosity of our incredible sponsors, golfers, volunteers, Torch’s employee-owners and Board of Directors, as well as the employee-owners and Board of Directors of our sister and parent companies Freedome Real Estate and Starfish Holdings, we were able to present the Village of Promise with a $110,000 donation!
This donation, made possible by all who gave of their time and/or resources, will support an invaluable nonprofit organization in their mission to break the cycle of poverty, one family at a time.
Thank you to our volunteers and sponsors for choosing to invest in our community through this wonderful organization!!!
About Village of Promise:
Village of Promise serves the needs of children and families from cradle to college to career in distressed neighborhoods. Education, health, enrichment programs and family support services are simply what they do to help each child succeed in school. Their initial efforts are focused in the neighborhood surrounding University Place Elementary School, Montview Elementary School, Westlawn Middle School and Butler
TAGS:
Community
Company Culture

--- Page: https://torchtechnologies.com/news/torch-supports-home-instead-for-the-holidays/ ---

Torch Supports Home Instead for the Holidays
Monday, November 27, 2023
Happy
#GivingTuesday
! Torch is honored to brighten the holiday season for the
Home Instead
community! Home Instead provides trustworthy, kindhearted, senior home care services in your loved one’s home. We wish them warmth and joy this Christmas!
Learn more: https://www.homeinstead.com
TAGS:

--- Page: https://torchtechnologies.com/news/torch-president-john-watson-awarded-still-ambassadorial-award/ ---

Torch President John Watson Awarded Still Ambassadorial Award
Thursday, February 15, 2018
Torch Technologies is pleased to announce that the Business Council of Alabama has presented the Still Ambassadorial Award to BCA board of directors' member and Torch Technologies' President John Watson.
The award was presented by Birmingham attorney and BCA board member Stephen W. Still, BCA Chairman Perry Hand, chairman of Volkert Inc. in Mobile, and BCA President and CEO William J. Canary, during the BCA board of directors meeting Feb. 7, 2018. The award is named for Still, who is the chairman of the BCA's Ambassador program, a ProgressPAC board member, and a shareholder of Maynard Cooper & Gale.
BCA Ambassadors advocate the advantages of BCA membership to Alabama's business community and in investing in the BCA to ensure that business is represented at the table in Montgomery and in Washington, D.C. "The BCA is a great return on investment," said Watson, who became president in 2013 and was named to the Torch board of directors in 2014. Watson has more than three decades in the defense industry spanning numerous roles in project engineering support, line and program management, and corporate management. He is a graduate of Auburn University.
The Still Ambassadorial Award is presented to BCA members who show outstanding efforts and consistent contributions to the BCA's Next Level Investor program.
Torch CEO Bill Roark stated, "We are proud of the success that Watson has had at Torch, and we are equally proud of his efforts within the community. As Torch has continued to grow, so has our commitment to giving back, and we are proud that our president leads by example through his commitment to organizations such as the Business Council of Alabama."
TAGS:
Leadership

--- Page: https://torchtechnologies.com/news/the-roarks-win-2023-community-philanthropist-of-the-year/ ---

Bill and Brenda Roark Win 2023 Community Philanthropist of the Year
Thursday, October 26, 2023
The Torch, Freedom and Starfish families are proud to congratulate Brenda and
Bill Roark
on their recent recognition as the
Community Foundation of Greater Huntsville
2023 Community Philanthropist of the Year. This award is an annual tribute presented to commend and celebrate individuals or families who embody the spirit of generosity within our community.
Please join us in applauding Bill and Brenda for their remarkable achievement and their unwavering contributions to the greater Huntsville community!
View the Community Foundation’s tribute to the Roark's here:
https://youtu.be/B-Of_5X6ctg?si=2AG0IKanatHQKDEe
.
TAGS:

--- Page: https://torchtechnologies.com/news/torch-awarded-oasis-full-open-pools-1-3-and-4/ ---

Torch Awarded OASIS Full & Open Pools 1, 3, and 4
Thursday, October 29, 2020
Torch Technologies (Torch) is pleased to announce we were awarded GSA's One Acquisition Solution for Integrated Services (OASIS) Full & Open Pools 1, 3, and 4. With this award, Torch now has Full & Open Pools 1, 3, 4, 5A, 5B, and 6, in addition to our Small Business Pools 5A, 5B, and 6. Contracts awarded under this open season provision will share the anticipated spending value of the OASIS program. GSA anticipates the spending value for OASIS SB and OASIS Unrestricted contracts to be at $60 Billion for 10 years of performance. Therefore, a ceiling value limited to Pools 1, 3 & 4 is not applicable.
OASIS is considered a Best-in-Class, Tier 3 contract by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB).  It is a multiple award, Indefinite Delivery Indefinite Quantity (IDIQ) contract that provides flexible contracting solutions and is available for use Government-wide to procure professional, scientific, and technical services support.  The scope of OASIS spans many areas of expertise and includes any and all components required to formulate a total solution to a professional services based requirement, including, but are not limited to: Communication, Compliance, Defense, Disaster, Energy, Environment, Financial, Health, Intelligence, Security, and Transportation.
"Torch has worked through the GSA to support many of our Government customers since our inception," said Torch President and CEO John Watson, "and as one of only 21 companies to receive multiple pool awards, we are honored to be able to continue to expand our support of GSA'S OASIS."
TAGS:
OASIS

--- Page: https://torchtechnologies.com/news/torch-technologies-makes-inc-5000-list-for-13th-consecutive-year/ ---

Torch Technologies Makes Inc. 5000 List for 13th Consecutive Year
Wednesday, August 14, 2019
Inc.
magazine today revealed that
Torch Technologies
, a 100% employee-owned technology services and solutions company headquartered in Huntsville, is No. 4200 on its annual Inc. 5000 list, the most prestigious ranking of the nation's fastest-growing private companies.
Torch is the only Huntsville-based company that has been on the list for 13 consecutive years, and the largest of only two companies in Alabama to make the list 13 or more years.
Inc.
Editor in Chief James Ledbetter remarked, "Needless to say, making the list gets harder every year as your starting base grows. Of the tens of thousands of companies that have applied to the Inc. 5000 over the years, only a fraction
have made the list more than once."
Torch continues to maintain consistent growth, being one of only 10 companies in the history of the Inc. 5000  to make the list 13 consecutive years. Of the 26 Huntsville-based companies on this year's list, Torch had the highest revenue for 2018 with $405M.
Torch President and CEO John Watson stated, "We are proud that Torch has again been recognized as one of the fastest-growing private companies in America, and we are thrilled to be one of only 10 companies who has made the list 13 consecutive times. We know that our continued success is due to our employee-owners and their constant commitment to our company, to our customers, and to the Warfighter."
Complete results of the Inc. 5000, including company profiles and an interactive database that can be sorted by industry, region, and other criteria, can be found at
www.inc.com/inc5000
TAGS:
Company Growth

--- Page: https://torchtechnologies.com/news/torch-visits-dar-high-school-robotics-team/ ---

Torch Visits DAR High School Robotics Team
Wednesday, October 04, 2023
A group of our Torch employee-owners visited the bright minds of DAR High Schools Robotics team, sharing their expertise and passion for innovation!
They talked to the students about potential education and career paths related to Mechanical Engineering and Computer Aided Design. The students learned about different CAD software, their uses and the most efficient ways to gain skills now in preparation for future studies and careers.
I think we have some future Torch Innovators on our hands!
TAGS:
Community

--- Page: https://torchtechnologies.com/news/?page=13 ---



--- Page: https://torchtechnologies.com/news/david-cook,-torch-senior-vice-president,-shares-insights-on-fista-in-kswo-interview/ ---

David Cook, Torch Senior Vice President, Shares Insights on FISTA in KSWO Interview
Tuesday, November 07, 2023
Torch Senior Vice President David Cook sat down with
KSWO TV
to discuss FISTA and the significant impact that soldier feedback has on the development of new technology.
Listen to the story
HERE
.
TAGS:

--- Page: https://torchtechnologies.com/news/torch-named-one-of-the-countrys-best-workplaces-in-consulting-professional-services-for-third-consecutive-year/ ---

Torch Named One of the Country's Best Workplaces in Consulting & Professional Services for Third Consecutive Year
Tuesday, April 24, 2018
Great Place to Work
and FORTUNE have again honored Torch Technologies as one of the
Best Workplaces in Consulting & Professional Services
for the third consecutive year. The ranking considered input from more than 51,000 employees in the Consulting & Professional Services sector. Great Place to Work, a research and consulting firm, evaluated more than 50 elements of team members' experience on the job. These included employee pride in the organization's community impact, belief that their work makes a difference, and feeling their work has special meaning. Rankings are based on employees' experiences, no matter who they are or what they do. Torch Technologies took the No. 3 spot on the Small and Medium Companies list.
"At Torch, we are committed to maintaining our unique culture, despite our company's continued growth," says Torch President John Watson. "We are proud of our culture that benefits not only our customers and our employee-owners, but also our communities. It is an honor that our employees continue to rate our workplace highly, and that Great Place to Work® and
Fortune
are recognizing our positive culture for the third consecutive year."
The Best Workplaces in Consulting & Professional Services stand out for thriving in the competitive marketplace.
"Great Place to Work is proud to have these Best Workplaces show that maximizing human potential creates a great workplace and drives business performance," said Michael Bush, CEO of Great Place to Work. "Organizations like Torch Technologies set the bar for other Consulting & Professional Services companies by practicing what they preach."
The Best Workplaces in the Consulting & Professional Services is one of a
series of rankings by Great Place to Work
and FORTUNE based on employee feedback from Great Place to Work-Certified™ organizations.
Torch Technologies
was also ranked as a Best Workplace in Consulting & Professionals Services in 2016 and 2017, and as a Small and Medium Workplace by Great Place to Work and
Fortune
in 2016 and 2017.
TAGS:
Company Growth

--- Page: https://torchtechnologies.com/news/torch-technologies-donates-100k-to-alabama-school-of-cyber-technology-engineering-foundation/ ---

Torch Technologies Donates $100K to Alabama School of Cyber Technology & Engineering Foundation
Thursday, June 06, 2019
Jim Diehl, Senior Manager of Torch Technologies, hands the check to Alicia Ryan and State Senator Arthur Orr on behalf of Torch's employee-owners. (Photo: Claire Aiello)
Torch Technologies was proud to present a donation of $100,000 to the Alabama School of Cyber Technology and Engineering Foundation today in a ceremony at the National Cyber Summit being held at the Von Braun Center.
Senator Arthur Orr (Alabama Senate-3rd and President, Board of Trustees, Alabama School of Cyber Technology and Engineering) and Alicia Ryan (CEO, LSINC and President, Alabama School of Cyber Technology and Engineering Foundation) accepted the check on behalf of the Foundation from Jim Diehl, Chief of Staff.
President and CEO John Watson stated, "We are proud to support this exciting effort. By investing in our community's education, we are investing in the future economy of our community."
TAGS:
Community

--- Page: https://torchtechnologies.com/news/torch-joins-incose-corporate-advisory-board/ ---

Torch Joins INCOSE Corporate Advisory Board
Wednesday, April 07, 2021
Torch Technologies (Torch) has recently become a member of the prestigious International Council on Systems Engineering (INCOSE) Corporate Advisory Board (CAB). In becoming a member of the CAB, Torch is proud to be joining a distinguished and motivated set of organizations striving to improve and advance the practice of Systems Engineering.
Membership on the INCOSE CAB places Torch in a strategic position to help shape the future of INCOSE and Systems Engineering. The CAB meets collectively twice a year at the INCOSE International Workshop and at the INCOSE International Symposium. INCOSE provides a wealth of benefits to its corporate members.
CAB membership allows Torch to guide the direction of the discipline, and Torch employee-owners can gain access to the state-of-the-art products. Membership on the INCOSE CAB also accelerates the transformation of systems engineering to a model-based discipline where Torch can build a broad community that promotes and advances model-based engineering, as well as the role that model-based systems engineering plays in it.
"Advancing and maturing the MBSE Practice is a corporate commitment of Torch and is anchored by our talented systems engineering and modeling and simulation employee-owner workforce" stated President and CEO John Watson.
The Torch team looks forward to working with INCOSE to forge forward with a better world through a systems approach. With digital engineering, MBSE, and new System Engineering tools in the toolbox, INCOSE is the premier choice of systems engineers everywhere for their professional development needs.
TAGS:
Growth

--- Page: https://torchtechnologies.com/news/?page=14 ---



--- Page: https://torchtechnologies.com/news/torch-named-top-fundraising-company-at-2024-huntsville-heart-walk/ ---

Torch Named Top Fundraising Company at 2024 Huntsville Heart Walk
Monday, May 13, 2024
Torch would like to thank everyone who contributed, raised funds and walked in Saturday’s 2024 AHA Huntsville Heart Walk!
We are proud to be recognized as the Top Fundraising Company and Top Fundraising Team, raising $43,460.53! Additionally, our very own Debbie Overcash has been honored as the Top Fundraising Individual, raising an outstanding $31,037.53! These remarkable contributions will continue to fund life-saving science and research!
A special thank you to Freedom Real Estate, Starfish Holdings, and our Board of Directors for joining Torch in this effort!
TAGS:

--- Page: https://torchtechnologies.com/news/torch-technologies-named-to-bloomberg-government’s-bgov200-list-of-top-federal-contractors/ ---

Torch Technologies Named to Bloomberg Government's BGOV200 List
Friday, August 05, 2022
TORCH TECHNOLOGIES NAMED TO BLOOMBERG GOVERNMENT’S BGOV200 LIST OF TOP FEDERAL CONTRACTORS
Torch Technologies Ranked #147 In Analysis of Unclassified, Prime Contracts Awarded Across All Federal Government Agencies
Washington, D.C. (July 2, 2022) — Torch Technologies today announced it has been named one of the top 200 federal contractors according to Bloomberg Government in the eleventh annual BGOV200, based on fiscal year 2021 data for unclassified, prime contracts awarded across all U.S. federal government agencies. To download a copy of the BGOV200, please visit
http://onb-gov.com/tNu450JVTQM
.
The 11th annual BGOV200 report is the culmination of extensive data cleansing and analysis of areas such as company hierarchy, contract title, and agency assignments. Data integrity makes this the premier source for government contract practitioners trying to make sense of shifts in the competitive landscape.
Bloomberg Government’s analysis finds that fiscal 2021’s spending of $649 billion marks the first time in six years that a decrease in government contract spending has occurred, a total contracting dollar decrease of $37 billion compared to the 2020 high of $687 billion. With less government spending comes a more competitive marketplace to find success in.
“We’re honored to recognize Torch Technologies as one of the top federal contractors for fiscal 2021,” said Kerry Lenahan, General Manager and Head of Government Contracting Solutions, Bloomberg Government. “The 11th edition is a testament to Bloomberg Government’s continued commitment to deliver critical market intelligence that helps clients best understand how to position themselves in this competitive market.”
About Bloomberg Government
Bloomberg Government is a premium, subscription-based service that provides comprehensive information and analytics for professionals who interact with – or are affected by – the government. Delivering news, analytics, and data-driven decision tools, Bloomberg Government’s digital workspace gives an intelligent edge to government affairs and contracting professionals. For more information or a demo, visit Bloomberg Government.
About Torch Technologies:
Founded in October 2002, Torch Technologies, Inc. (Torch) is a 100% employee-owned business dedicated to quality technical services, competitive costs, and ethical business practices. Torch has received both national and local recognition for its business performance, workplace environment, and ethical business practices. In 2021, Torch was ranked on the Inc. 5000 list for the fifteenth consecutive year. Torch was also named one of the Best Workplaces in Consulting & Professional Services for the sixth consecutive year by Great Place to Work, and Great Place to Work and Fortune named Torch one of the country’s Best Workplaces for Millennials for the fourth year, with previous recognition in 2021, 2020, and 2018. Torch was also recognized as the 2021 ESOP Company of the Year by the New South Chapter of The ESOP Association for a second time, with previous recognition in 2018. Additionally, Torch was selected as a recipient of the 2021 James S. Cogswell Outstanding Industrial Security Achievement Award by the Defense Counterintelligence and Security Agency (DCSA). Washington Technology also listed Torch in its annual “Top 100” Government Contractors ranking for the seventh consecutive year, and Bloomberg Government listed Torch in its annual “Top 200” ranking for the sixth consecutive year in 2022. Torch was also selected for a Colorado Springs Business Journal “Best in Business” award for the second consecutive year and named one of the “Best Workplaces in Colorado Springs” by The Colorado Springs Gazette for the second consecutive year in 2021. In 2020, Torch became the only four-time recipient of the Better Business Bureau’s Torch Award for Business Ethics in the North Alabama region, also winning in 2015, 2009, and 2005. Great Place to Work named Torch one of the country’s Best Workplaces for Parents in 2020. In 2019, Torch was ranked on the Entrepreneur 360 list for the third consecutive year. In 2018, Great Place to Work and Fortune magazine named Torch a Best Medium Workplace for the third consecutive year. Additionally, Torch was also named a winner of the 2018 Best Places to Work in Huntsville award, marking Torch’s fifth time to receive this honor, with previous wins in 2017, 2016, 2012, and 2008. In 2016, Torch was named one of America’s Best Small Companies by Forbes. For more information, visit the company’s website at
www.TorchTechnologies.com
TAGS:

--- Page: https://torchtechnologies.com/news/simvana-partners-with-huntsville-hospital-health-system-on-development-of-simvana-nursing/ ---

SIMVANA Partners with Huntsville Hospital Health System on Development of SIMVANA Nursing
Friday, April 18, 2025
Platform Will Address High Costs and Training Demand Associated with Onboarding New Nursing Staff
HUNTSVILLE, Ala. – April 18, 2025
– SIMVANA, a leading provider of virtual reality (VR)-based training products for the healthcare industry today announced that it has partnered with the Huntsville Hospital System to develop SIMVANA Nursing, an innovative virtual reality-based training solution designed to enhance nurse onboarding and improve patient safety. Built on the proven SIMVANA Anesthesia platform, SIMVANA Nursing is tailored to address the unique challenges faced by healthcare providers in onboarding new nurses efficiently while maintaining the highest standards of care.
“We onboard more than 700 nursing professionals annually. SIMVANA Nursing has the potential to redefine how we onboard and train nurses,” said Huntsville Hospital Health System CEO Jeff Samz. “By investing in innovative solutions like this, we are not only reducing costs but also ensuring our nurses are equipped to deliver exceptional care from the moment they step on the floor.”
“The collaboration represents a significant step forward in healthcare education, leveraging advanced VR technology to deliver immersive, hands-on training experiences,” said SIMVANA President John Watson. “SIMVANA Nursing is designed to streamline the onboarding process, reduce associated costs, and ensure nurses are fully prepared to provide safe, effective patient care from day one.”
Key Features of SIMVANA Nursing
Comprehensive Training Modules
: Covers core nursing competencies, including patient assessment, medication administration, and emergency response protocols.
Realistic Simulations
: Nurses can practice in a virtual hospital environment, gaining exposure to real-world scenarios without compromising patient safety.
Performance Analytics
: Detailed feedback and progress tracking empower nurses to build confidence and competence quickly.
Cost-Effective Implementation
: The platform reduces reliance on traditional training resources and minimizes the time required for onboarding.
SIMVANA Nursing is an evolution of the successful SIMVANA Anesthesia platform, which has been adopted by leading Certified Registered Nurse Anesthetist (CRNA) programs to enhance clinical training for anesthesia providers. The first nurse training modules were delivered in November with additional modules scheduled to be released monthly throughout 2025 and 2026.
About Huntsville Hospital Health System
Huntsville Hospital Health System is a comprehensive network of community, not-for-profit hospitals that serve as the primary provider of services and the healthcare safety net for more than 1.5 million people in northern Alabama and southern Tennessee. The Health System includes hospitals and related facilities in Huntsville, Madison, Athens, Decatur, Boaz, Fort Payne, Guntersville, Moulton, Red Bay, Sheffield, Scottsboro, and Fayetteville, TN. Total employment of Huntsville Hospital Health System is more than 19,500. For more information visit
www.hh.health
About SIMVANA
Founded in 2022, SIMVANA specializes in immersive educational solutions for anesthesia and healthcare training. The company is committed to leveraging innovative technology to enhance patient safety and improve learning outcomes. SIMVANA is a collaboration between Torch Technologies and Prodigy Anesthesia. SIMVANA is a Starfish Holdings company.
For more information about SIMVANA and its offerings, please visit
simvana.com
.
TAGS:
Customers

--- Page: https://torchtechnologies.com/news/torch-awarded-2021-james-s-cogswell-outstanding-industrial-security-achievement-award/ ---

Torch Receives 2021 James S. Cogswell Outstanding Industrial Security Achievement Award
Thursday, June 10, 2021
Torch Technologies (Torch)
, a 100% employee-owned technology services and solutions company headquartered in Huntsville, Alabama, is proud to have been awarded the 2021 James S. Cogswell Outstanding Industrial Security Achievement Award by the Defense Counterintelligence and Security Agency (DCSA). The Cogswell Award is the most prestigious honor the Department of Defense can bestow to cleared contractors who consistently, and at the highest level, demonstrate a commitment to excellence and leadership in the Industrial Security community.
Of the more than 12,500 cleared contractors in the National Industrial Security Program (NISP), only 40 facilities received this honor this year, which is 0.3% of those eligible. Of the 300 Huntsville-based cleared Defense contractors, Torch was one of only two Huntsville recipients of the Cogswell Award.
The Cogswell Award criterion focuses on the principles of industrial security excellence, and the selection process is rigorous. A DCSA Industrial Security Representative may only nominate facilities that have at a minimum two consecutive superior industrial security review ratings and which show a sustained degree of excellence and innovation in their overall security program management, implementation, and oversight. DCSA makes the final selections based upon the following criteria: overall security program; senior management support; security vulnerability assessments; security education and awareness; facility security officer and security staff level of experience; and classified material controls.
Traditionally, the awards are presented at the annual NCMS training seminar; however, due to the COVID-19 pandemic, the NCMS seminar was cancelled, and the award winners were recognized in a virtual ceremony.
"We are honored to have been selected by DCSA as a recipient of the Cogswell Award," Torch President and CEO John Watson stated. "Our selection for this prestigious award reflects Torch's commitment to a strong security program to protect our nation and the Warfighter, and this recognition for our security personnel is well-deserved."
See the
complete list
of the 2021 Cogswell Award recipients.
TAGS:
Company Culture

--- Page: https://torchtechnologies.com/news/torch-awarded-s3i-oasis-ms-aviation-and-missile-systems-task-order-award/ ---

Torch Awarded S3I OASIS M&S Aviation and Missile Systems Task Order
Wednesday, May 12, 2021
Torch Technologies (Torch) is pleased to announce the award of a $722 million task order by U.S. Army Combat Capabilities Development Command (DEVCOM) Aviation and Missile Center (AvMC) Systems Simulation Software and Integration Directorate (S3I) for Modeling and Simulation (M&S) Aviation and Missile Systems. The task order has a five-year period of performance and will be executed primarily in Huntsville, Ala.
The Torch team will develop and apply models and simulations to aviation and missile system analysis ensuring warfighter readiness and future capabilities are realized. Team Torch will supply cost-effective solutions that facilitate readiness and technological dominance of the U.S. Army's current and future force.
"Torch is pleased to continue our long-standing relationship with the DEVCOM AvMC S3I M&S customers," said Torch President and CEO John Watson. "We are proud to be a part of their important mission to provide weapons development and modernization support to our warfighters."
TAGS:
U.S. Army

--- Page: https://torchtechnologies.com/news/?page=6 ---



--- Page: https://torchtechnologies.com/news/torch-golf-tournament-raises-$110,000-for-village-of-promise/ ---

Torch Golf Tournament Raises $110,000 for Village of Promise
Friday, September 20, 2024
The 2024 Torch Charity Golf Tournament was a huge success. The event, which drew the largest number of golfers in its 14-year history, also set a new record for the $110,000 donation to Village of Promise. Many thanks to the event sponsors, golfers, and the Torch employee-owners who volunteered.
TAGS:
Community
Company Culture

--- Page: https://torchtechnologies.com/news/torch-donates-25k-to-flood-victims-in-kentucky/ ---

Torch Donates $25k to flood victims in Kentucky
Friday, August 05, 2022
Following a historic rain that brought deadly flooding to Eastern Kentucky, Torch committed to donate $25,000 towards relief and recovery efforts for those impacted by the devastation. The donation will assist with basic needs such as shelter, food and medical care.
Founder Bill Roark said, “My wife Brenda and I grew up near the center of the flooded area. I would like to offer words of comfort for families who lost loved ones and words of courage for those who are rebuilding.”
About Torch Technologies:
Founded in October 2002, Torch Technologies, Inc. (Torch) is a 100% employee-owned business dedicated to quality technical services, competitive costs, and ethical business practices. Torch has received both national and local recognition for its business performance, workplace environment, and ethical business practices. In 2021, Torch was ranked on the Inc. 5000 list for the fifteenth consecutive year. Torch was also named one of the Best Workplaces in Consulting & Professional Services for the sixth consecutive year by Great Place to Work, and Great Place to Work and Fortune named Torch one of the country’s Best Workplaces for Millennials for the fourth year, with previous recognition in 2021, 2020, and 2018. Torch was also recognized as the 2021 ESOP Company of the Year by the New South Chapter of The ESOP Association for a second time, with previous recognition in 2018. Additionally, Torch was selected as a recipient of the 2021 James S. Cogswell Outstanding Industrial Security Achievement Award by the Defense Counterintelligence and Security Agency (DCSA). Washington Technology also listed Torch in its annual “Top 100” Government Contractors ranking for the seventh consecutive year, and Bloomberg Government listed Torch in its annual “Top 200” ranking for the sixth consecutive year in 2022. Torch was also selected for a Colorado Springs Business Journal “Best in Business” award for the second consecutive year and named one of the “Best Workplaces in Colorado Springs” by The Colorado Springs Gazette for the second consecutive year in 2021. In 2020, Torch became the only four-time recipient of the Better Business Bureau’s Torch Award for Business Ethics in the North Alabama region, also winning in 2015, 2009, and 2005. Great Place to Work named Torch one of the country’s Best Workplaces for Parents in 2020. In 2019, Torch was ranked on the Entrepreneur 360 list for the third consecutive year. In 2018, Great Place to Work and Fortune magazine named Torch a Best Medium Workplace for the third consecutive year. Additionally, Torch was also named a winner of the 2018 Best Places to Work in Huntsville award, marking Torch’s fifth time to receive this honor, with previous wins in 2017, 2016, 2012, and 2008. In 2016, Torch was named one of America’s Best Small Companies by Forbes. For more information, visit the company’s website at
www.TorchTechnologies.com
TAGS:
Community

--- Page: https://torchtechnologies.com/news/torch-supports-2019-liz-hurley-ribbon-run/ ---

Torch Supports 2019 Liz Hurley Ribbon Run
Saturday, October 19, 2019
Torch Team at 2019 Liz Hurley Ribbon Run
Torch employee-owners and their families laced up their running shoes on Saturday, October 19th, to support the 2019 Liz Hurley Ribbon Run. Torch participants included Torch employee-owners, family, and friends who raised a total of $6,750 for the Liz Hurley Breast Cancer Fund at the Huntsville Hospital Foundation. The Torch team was happy to be a part of this event and support these fundraising efforts to help provide lifesaving diagnostic equipment for the Madison Hospital Breast Center.
TAGS:
Company Culture

--- Page: https://torchtechnologies.com/news/torch-advanced-vizlab-delivers-simvana-first-commercial-product/ ---

Torch Advanced VIZLAB Delivers SIMVANA, First Commercial Product
Tuesday, April 06, 2021
SIMVANA Install and Demo at Southern Illinois University Edwardsville
Torch Technologies' Advanced VIZLAB (AVL) recently delivered
SIMVANA
, Torch's first commercial product, to its first university customer,
Southern Illinois University Edwardsville
. SIMVANA is a virtual reality anesthesia trainer designed to disrupt the delivery of anesthesia training for Certified Registered Nurse Anesthetist and anesthesiology residents at hospitals and universities worldwide.
The concept for SIMVANA was born by a chance meeting in 2018 between Torch employee-owner Darryl Trousdale, Torch AVL PM, and Peter Stallo of Prodigy Connect at their neighborhood swimming pool. Saving lives by leveraging advanced visualization technology quickly became the vision for this partnership, a perfect fit for the portfolio of Torch values. Over the past two and a half years, Peter and the AVL have collaborated to advance the original idea into the first software release slated to support a 12-month beta test program by a handful of universities. The initial release contains two basic teaching scenarios, but the AVL team will be adding ~30 new scenarios throughout 2021 supporting the official product launch in early 2022.
Resources to advance SIMVANA to this point were provided by a combination of internal funding and an
EPIC Mega Grant
. The multi-discipline team of artists, developers, and designers are creating an immersive training environment where any real-world anesthesia delivery situation can be simulated, providing training capabilities never before available. Inside SIMVANA, there are no 6 DOF models of missiles, no fire control algorithms, and no radar models, but there is a very sophisticated physiology simulator and physics-based anesthesia machine model driving every response to every action by the trainee. All of this is in a 3D immersive operating room that makes you believe that you are really there. With SIMVANA, anesthesia providers can train- not until they get it right- but until they cannot get it wrong.
For more information about SIMVANA, visit the product website at
https://simvana.com
For more information about the
SIUE Nurse Anesthesia program
SIMVANA Install and Demo at Southern Illinois University Edwardsville
TAGS:
Growth

--- Page: https://torchtechnologies.com/news/torch-technologies-receives-community-philanthropy-award/ ---

Torch Receives Community Philanthropy Award
Tuesday, September 10, 2019
Torch Technologies was presented a "Community Philanthropy Award" by the Community Foundation of Greater Huntsville during this year's annual Summit on Philanthropy awards banquet. At the Summit on Philanthropy, members of the Huntsville community were recognized by the Community Foundation's with various Philanthropy Awards. The Community Foundation of Greater Huntsville stated, "Torch Technologies has made giving back part of their corporate culture. We were honored to award them a Community Philanthropy Award at this year's Summit on Philanthropy for their giving spirit. From prioritizing generosity as part of their ESOP transaction, to investing in the Catalyst Endowment, to numerous community partnerships, their philanthropic leadership is an inspiration."
Other award recipients included Joe and Pam Alexander, Dynetics, Jean McCrady, Vector Wealth Strategies, LLC, and Mike and Patty Lowe.
TAGS:
Company Culture

--- Page: https://torchtechnologies.com/news/promotion-of-torch-intern-avontae-broomfield/ ---

Promotion of Torch Intern Avontae Broomfield
Wednesday, August 02, 2023
Torch Technologies is pleased to announce the promotion of Avontae Broomfield from intern to a part-time employee at our office suite in the Lawton FISTA. As a Computer Science major at Cameron University, Avontae applied for and was selected to participate in Torch Technologies’ paid internship program in Huntsville, AL.
Since joining our team, Avontae has consistently demonstrated exceptional skills, passion, and dedication to his growth within our company. His outstanding performance, innovative contributions, and willingness to go above and beyond have significantly impacted Torch Technologies' support to our Government Customers at Redstone Arsenal, AL. We look forward to the future and having him as an employee.
His hiring is a testament to Torch Technologies’ dedication to recognizing and nurturing up-and-coming talent in Southwest Oklahoma and the Lawton/Fort Sill area. Congratulations Avontae!
TAGS:

--- Page: https://torchtechnologies.com/news/?page=12 ---



--- Page: https://torchtechnologies.com/news/torch-technologies-collaboration-with-huntsville-hospital/ ---

Torch Technologies Collaboration with Huntsville Hospital
Monday, October 02, 2023
Torch is thrilled to announce an innovative collaboration with Huntsville Hospital that could represent the future of nursing education at Huntsville Hospital.
Together, we're embarking on a venture to potentially harness Virtual Reality (VR) as part of our orientation process for newly-hired clinical staff.
Read more about the project
HERE.
TAGS:

--- Page: https://torchtechnologies.com/news/torch-technologies-raises-100k-for-village-of-promise-amid-covid-19-funding-shortfall/ ---

Torch Technologies Raises $100K for Village of Promise Amid COVID-19 Funding Shortfall
Tuesday, September 01, 2020
Torch Technologies Raises $100K for Village of Promise with Virtual Fundraiser
Torch Technologies (Torch) planned to host its 10
th
annual golf tournament in Huntsville this year, but in consideration of the current COVID-19 pandemic and safety concerns, instead hosted a virtual fundraiser for Village of Promise. Torch and previous golf tournament sponsors are collectively making a big difference, helping ease the funding shortfall at Village of Promise due to COVID-19. Through the combined generosity of previous golf tournament sponsors (listed below), Torch's employee-owners, retirees, and Board of Directors, as well as employee-owners of our sister and parent companies Freedom Real Estate & Capital and Starfish Holdings, Torch was able to raise $100,000 for Village of Promise.
"We believe in giving back to the communities our employee-owners call home. By investing in the education and support of the children in our community, we aim to provide a better future for all our community's residents," said Torch President and CEO John Watson.  "We are so grateful to our sponsors and employee-owners for sharing that vision with us and joining us in support of Village of Promise. With the uncertainty surrounding this virus, it is so important for our community to come together in support of our local nonprofit organizations to help ease any funding concerns they may be experiencing."
Torch and representatives from the many sponsoring companies presented the $100,000 check to Village of Promise at the Freedom Center on the Torch Technologies campus on September 1, 2020. All proceeds from the fundraiser benefited the Village of Promise and its mission to eradicate generational poverty one neighborhood at a time. The Village of Promise helps children of all ages receive support to help them achieve educational success from early childhood in their Infant University program to college and beyond.
"The community that was hardest hit by the COVID shutdown is the community that we directly serve at Village of Promise," explained Village of Promise Executive Director Dr. Libby Parker. She continued, "We serve families and scholars from the most impoverished community in Huntsville, so it has been essential to help them get back on their feet and sustain their families during this unprecedented time. The funding provided by Torch and their partners is going directly to the hardest hit areas to combat poverty, and we couldn't do it without them."
Virtual Fundraiser Check Presentation
Thank you to our Village of Promise Fundraiser Sponsors:
Presenting Sponsors
: Torch Technologies (Torch), Torch Employee-Owners, Retirees, and Board of Directors, Freedom Real Estate & Capital Employee-Owners and Board of Directors, Starfish Holdings Employee-Owners and Board of Directors
Diamond Sponsors
: Applied Analytical Solutions, Crossflow Technologies
Platinum Sponsors
: Bradley, Essential Ingredients
Gold Sponsors
: Avion Solutions, CFD Research, Cintel, Inc., ERC, Gayle T. Milton, CLU ChFC, , Hill Technical Solutions Inc, Integration Innovation Inc. (i3), IBERIABANK, Invariant Corporation, IronMountain Solutions, Inc., ISSAC Corp., Maynard Cooper & Gale, NTA, Inc., Parsons, Progress Bank, Progress Financial Services, Synovus Bank, Wavelink, Inc., Willbrook Solutions, Inc.
Silver Sponsors
: Aegis Technologies, BRPH, J. Smith Lanier and Company, KODA Technologies, Millennium Engineering and Integration, SimTech, Turner Construction
Refreshment Sponsors
: ArcSpace Studio, Connor Group LLC, Reliant Technologies, Inc.
Hole Sponsors
: BB&T, Bank of America/Chris Patty, Christopherson Travel, Campus No. 805, Conditioned Air Solutions, DESE Research, Inc., DW Design LLC, Indoff Inc., Monte Sano Research Corporation (MSRC), nLogic Inc., PeopleTec, Inc., Principal, Redstone Federal Credit Union, The Lioce Group
Virtual Fundraiser Sponsors
About Village of Promise
- Village of Promise serves the needs of children and families from cradle to college to career in distressed neighborhoods. Education, health, enrichment programs and family support services are simply what they do to help each child succeed in school. Their initial efforts are focused in the neighborhood surrounding University Place Elementary School, Montview Elementary School, Westlawn Middle School and Butler High School. To learn more about the Village of Promise go to
www.villagepromise.com
TAGS:
Company Culture

--- Page: https://torchtechnologies.com/news/torch-wins-10m-wargames-simulation-scenario-development-wssd-task-order/ ---

Torch Wins $10M Wargames, Simulation & Scenario Development (WSSD) Task Order
Friday, November 18, 2016
Torch Technologies is pleased to announce it was awarded the $10M D3I Domain 2 - Wargames, Simulation & Scenario Development (WSSD) Task Order. Torch's award provides study, wargame, experimentation, and analysis support to the Space and Missile Defense Command's Future Warfare Center.
The work to be completed by the Torch team has a 2.5-year period of performance and will be completed in Huntsville, AL; Colorado Springs, CO; and El Paso, TX. "We are excited to have been awarded the first competitive D3I Domain 2 Task Order, cementing our commitment as a new Prime contractor to the Space and Missile Defense Command," Torch President John Watson said. "We look forward to providing Wargames and Simulation support to the Future Warfare Center."
TAGS:
D3I
U.S. Army

--- Page: https://torchtechnologies.com/news/south-huntsville-redevelopment-continues/ ---

Freedom Real Estate, Torch Technologies, and Invariant Corporation's Commitment to South Huntsville Redevelopment Continues
Monday, May 11, 2020
Rendering provided by Freedom Real Estate
Freedom Real Estate & Capital (Freedom), Torch Technologies (Torch) and Invariant Corporation (Invariant) have announced they are breaking ground on a new mixed-use facility in South Huntsville, with a targeted completion date in the summer of 2021. The groundbreaking ceremony, canceled due to COVID-19, was set to take place at the end of April. This new development follows the 2019 completion of Torch's
Technology Integration and Prototyping Center
.
Freedom
, a real estate investment company, will develop the new facility at 4040 Chris Drive, and has leased the first two spaces to Torch and Invariant, with opportunity for an additional tenant. The multi-tenant building will house up to 92,000 square feet and will feature a mix of office, research and development labs, light manufacturing, assembly and integration space along with a high bay.
Torch
, a 100% employee-owned services and solutions defense contractor founded in 2002 in Huntsville, has shown its continued commitment to the redevelopment of and investment in South Huntsville through the rapid growth of its Huntsville headquarters. Torch's campus consisted of two buildings in 2015, and just five years later Torch is breaking ground on its sixth building. "We are proud to work alongside the city and state in our continued efforts to improve the standard of living in our South Huntsville community" said John Watson, President and CEO of Torch.
Invariant
, an engineering services and software development company founded in 2001 in Huntsville, is expanding into the facility to support its continued growth. "We are excited to grow and expand into this new facility that will provide our employees the resources needed to ensure quality services and products are delivered to our customers, and we are proud to be a part of Huntsville's continuing success" stated David Anderson, President of Invariant.
The project is part of a continued effort to redevelop South Huntsville. The city of Huntsville has been working to reclaim, modernize and upgrade the area along South Memorial Parkway to encourage investment and redevelopment in the area, and is seeing tremendous progress with many announcements of new projects, including
Hays Farm
. "Torch has been a catalyst for South Huntsville's revitalization since the very beginning," said Bekah Schmidt, CEO of South Huntsville Business Main Association. "The new facility at 4040 Chris Drive is a mixed-use facility with a state-of-the-art laboratory and premier manufacturing space. We look forward to seeing this project completed next year and appreciate Torch's continued investment in South Huntsville!"
Bill Roark, co-founder of Torch Technologies and CEO of Freedom Real Estate & Capital, added "We are proud to be able to contribute to economic development and growth in South Huntsville. This community is our home, and we look forward to watching it grow and thrive for years to come."
TAGS:
Growth

--- Page: https://torchtechnologies.com/news/torch-celebrates-opening-oftechnology-integration-and-prototyping-center-tipc/ ---

Torch Celebrates Opening of Technology Integration and Prototyping Center (TIPC)
Friday, March 13, 2020
Technology Integration and Prototyping Center (TIPC)
Torch Technologies (Torch) virtually celebrated the ribbon cutting of its newest building, the Technology Integration and Prototyping Center. The ribbon cutting was scheduled to be held on March 13, 2020 at Torch's new lab and solutions facility but was canceled due to COVID-19.
TIPC, the newest facility of Torch's growing campus, consists of a 45,000 square foot, two-story research and development building with an attached 5,000 square foot high bay facility. The TIPC facility incorporates offices, labs, engineering design tools, collaborative work areas, meeting spaces, and a high bay and complete machining and fabrication capability.
"It was nearly two years ago that we celebrated the groundbreaking of Torch's Technology Integration and Prototyping Center (affectionally referred to as the TIPC). At that time, we were 750 employee-owners and $348M in revenue," said Torch President and CEO John Watson. "Since then, we have grown to approximately 1100 employee-owners and half a billion dollars in annual sales. A key contributor to this growth has been the investment we made into the TIPC."
The new facility has greatly expanded Torch's capacity to deliver cost-effective design and prototyping solutions for their customers. With the addition of the newest facility, Torch's Huntsville campus now comprises four buildings, and will break ground on a fifth building in April.
Torch, established on October 2, 2002 in Huntsville, Alabama, was founded by Bill Roark and Don Holder. In its first year, Torch had seven employees and one location. Now, with more than 1100 employee-owners in 17 locations in twelve states, one territory, and one foreign country, Torch is lighting the pathway of freedom.
For more information about the Technology Integration and Prototyping Center
.
TAGS:
Growth

--- Page: https://torchtechnologies.com/news/torch-technologies-makes-inc-5000-for-15th-consecutive-year/ ---

Torch Technologies Makes Inc. 5000 for 15th Consecutive Year
Thursday, August 19, 2021
Huntsville, AL - August 17, 2021:
Inc.
magazine today revealed that
Torch Technologies
, a 100% employee-owned technology services and solutions company headquartered in Huntsville, is No. 4558 on its annual Inc. 5000 list, with a three year growth of 57%. Inc. 5000 is the most prestigious ranking of the nation's fastest-growing private companies. The list represents a unique look at the most successful companies within the American economy's most dynamic segment--its independent small businesses. Intuit, Zappos, Under Armour, Microsoft, Patagonia, and many other well-known names gained their first national exposure as honorees on the Inc. 5000.
Torch is the only company in Alabama, and one of less than five companies nationwide, that has made the list 15 or more years. Since its 2002 founding in Huntsville, Alabama, Torch has maintained consistent growth, expanding to include seven regional technical offices, and providing on-site field support at customer locations worldwide.
"We are very proud to be one of the few  companies to have been named to the Inc5000 list for 15 consecutive years.  It is a true testament to the power of employee ownership and the great employees that it rewards."- Torch President and CEO John Watson.
Not only have the companies on the 2021 Inc. 5000 been very competitive within their markets, but this year's list also proved especially resilient and flexible given 2020's unprecedented challenges. Among the 5,000, the average median three-year growth rate soared to 543 percent, and median revenue reached $11.1 million. Together, those companies added more than 610,000 jobs over the past three years.
Complete results of the Inc. 5000, including company profiles and an interactive database that can be sorted by industry, region, and other criteria, can be found at
www.inc.com/inc5000
The top 500 companies are featured in the September issue of
Inc.
, which will be available on newsstands on August 20.
TAGS:
Company Growth

--- Page: https://torchtechnologies.com/news/torch-technologies-named-to-entrepreneur-360-list-for-third-consecutive-year/ ---

Torch Technologies Named to Entrepreneur 360 List for Third Consecutive Year
Tuesday, October 01, 2019
Torch Technologies was recognized today for the third consecutive year as one of the "Best Entrepreneurial Companies in America" by
Entrepreneur
magazine's
Entrepreneur360™ List
, a premier study delivering the most comprehensive analysis of private companies in America. Based on this study forged by
Entrepreneur
, Torch is recognized as a well-rounded company that has mastered a balance of impact, innovation, growth, leadership, and value. Torch ranked #8 out of 360 organizations this year, up from #11 in 2018 and #16 in 2017.
"We are proud to have again been recognized by
Entrepreneur
magazine for our distinctive approach to innovation, growth, leadership, and culture," says Torch President and CEO John Watson. "Our continued success as a 100% employee-owned company is thanks to our invaluable employee-owners. We are privileged to be part of a growing group of extraordinary people who are innovative and bright, and who make Torch a great place to work."
"Every entrepreneur knows that a healthy business isn't just about growth. It's about being well-rounded--growing your culture and your systems as strongly as you grow your revenue," says Jason Feifer, editor in chief of
Entrepreneur
magazine. "That's why we're excited to celebrate these companies with our fifth annual Entrepreneur360™ ranking. The companies that make the list have pushed boundaries with their innovative ideas, fostered strong company cultures, impacted their communities for the better, strengthened their brand, and grown impressively as a result."
Honorees were identified based on the results from a comprehensive study of independently- owned companies, using a proprietary algorithm and other advanced analytics. The algorithm was built on a balanced scorecard designed to measure five metrics reflecting major pillars of entrepreneurship--innovation, growth, leadership, impact, and business valuation.
For additional details on the E360 List and the companies recognized, visit:
entrepreneur.com/360
TAGS:
Growth

--- Page: https://torchtechnologies.com/news/torch-technologies-hosts-tech-expo/ ---

Torch Tech Expo Showcases Cutting-Edge Innovations
Wednesday, August 30, 2023
We are thrilled to say that the 2023 Torch Tech Expo concluded with resounding success!
On August 29, 2023, we invited hundreds of our community’s Active Duty Military and Government Civilian Employees to gather for a unique, free hands-on technical interchange event aimed at solving the Warfighter’s most urgent technical needs.
We extend our heartfelt gratitude to everyone who attended, making the event a truly memorable experience. We could not have done it without our dedicated Torch teams, whose support and hard work were instrumental in orchestrating this event. We look forward to what's next!
TAGS:

--- Page: https://torchtechnologies.com/news/jackson-county-schools-host-simvana-anesthesia-demo-day/ ---

Jackson County Schools Host SIMVANA Anesthesia Demo Day
Friday, February 21, 2025
Partnership Accelerates Career Skill Development for Jackson County Youth
Hollywood, Ala., February 21, 2025
– Jackson County Schools hosted a SIMVANA Demo Day today at the Kevin Dukes Career and Innovation Academy (KDCIA), showcasing the transformative impact of industry-education partnerships. The event highlighted how collaborations like the one between Jackson County Schools and SIMVANA, a sister company to Torch Technologies headquartered in Huntsville, Alabama, are equipping students with cutting-edge career skills. In 2024, Jackson County Schools partnered with SIMVANA to integrate its virtual reality (VR) nurse anesthetist training into KDCIA’s Health Sciences program.
“This partnership is enabling us to get technology into the classroom much faster than traditional methods,” said Jackson County Schools Superintendent Jason Davidson. “Health Sciences is one of our largest programs, and through this collaboration, our students can explore anesthesia as a potential career while still in high school. This hands-on experience allows them to assess their skills and interest in the field—an opportunity that was previously unavailable.”
The American Association of Nurse Anesthesiology predicts that the anesthesiology workforce will experience a significant shortage of qualified practitioners by 2033, with rural communities expected to be disproportionately affected.
“We are pleased to partner with the Jackson County School System and KDCIA,” said Darryl Trousdale, Program Manager of Torch Technologies Advanced VIZLAB and Co-founder of SIMVANA. “SIMVANA Anesthesia has revolutionized simulation training at the college level across the US and is now being leveraged at the K-12 level to inspire the next generation of anesthesia providers. The potential applications of this technology extend far beyond anesthesia. While today’s focus is on anesthesia careers, our immersive VR training can be adapted for a wide range of industries, opening doors for students across multiple career paths.”
Recent surveys conducted by SIMVANA with local Career Day participants demonstrated the program’s impact. Findings revealed that 36% of students who experienced SIMVANA Anesthesia expressed a strong interest in pursuing a career as an anesthesia provider, highlighting the effectiveness of immersive learning in career exploration.
“This is the future of education,” added Davidson. “Career Tech and college readiness are converging, and innovative tools like SIMVANA Anesthesia are helping students discover fulfilling career opportunities. Our partnership is making this vision a reality in Jackson County, and we hope today’s event inspires other school systems across North Alabama to adopt similar technology-driven initiatives.”
About Torch Technologies
Torch Technologies is a 100 percent employee-owned business dedicated to providing superior research, development, and engineering services to the Department of Defense. The services we provide directly support the men and women who serve our country. Torch is part of the Starfish Holdings family of businesses that also includes Freedom Real Estate & Capital, LLC, and SIMVANA. To learn more, visit TorchTechnologies.com.
About SIMVANA
Founded in 2022, SIMVANA specializes in virtual reality-based educational solutions for anesthesia and healthcare training. The company is committed to leveraging innovative technology to enhance patient safety and improve learning outcomes. SIMVANA is a Starfish Holdings company. For more information about SIMVANA and its offerings, please visit www.simvana.com.
TAGS:

--- Page: https://torchtechnologies.com/news/torch-names-best-place-to-work-by-the-huntsville/madison-county-chamber/ ---

Torch Named Best Place To Work by the Huntsville/Madison County Chamber
Monday, May 15, 2023
We are pleased to share that the
Huntsville/Madison County Chamber
has awarded Torch bronze for the 2023 Best Places to Work Awards in the extra-large company category!
We want to extend a heartfelt thank you to all our exceptional employee-owners. Their dedication, hard work, and unwavering commitment have been instrumental in our continued success. This award wouldn’t be possible without them!
TAGS:
Awards and Recognition
Best Place to Work

--- Page: https://torchtechnologies.com/news/south-huntsville-companies-host-ribbon-cutting-for-new-multi-tenant-facility/ ---

South Huntsville Companies Host Ribbon Cutting for New Multi-Tenant Facility
Thursday, September 30, 2021
County Commission Chair Dale Strong, Torch President and CEO John Watson, Invariant President David Anderson, Freedom CEO and Torch Co-Founder Bill Roark, Huntsville Mayor Tommy Battle, and Huntsville/Madison County Chamber Board Chair Jeff Gronberg.
Freedom Real Estate & Capital (Freedom), Invariant Corporation (Invariant), and Torch Technologies (Torch) are celebrating the ribbon cutting of a new multi-use building located at 4040 Chris Drive. The ribbon cutting was hosted on September 30, 2021 at the site of the new building.
The event began with a welcome from Huntsville/Madison County Chamber Board Chair Jeff Gronberg. Next, we heard from property developer Freedom Real Estate & Capital CEO, Bill Roark, as well as from representatives of the tenants of the new facility, Invariant President David Anderson, and Torch Technologies President and CEO John Watson. The event concluded with remarks from Huntsville Mayor Tommy Battle and County Commission Chair Dale Strong.
Freedom
, a real estate investment company, developed the new facility at 4040 Chris Drive, and leased the first two spaces to Invariant and Torch. The 4040 Chris Drive development is a multi-tenant building that will house up to 92,000 square feet once fully built-out and features a mix of office, research and development labs, light manufacturing, assembly, and integration space along with a high bay.
Invariant
, an engineering, systems integration, and software development company founded in 2001 in Huntsville, is expanding into the new facility to support their company's continued growth. "We are excited to grow and expand into this new facility that will provide our employees the resources needed to ensure quality services and products are delivered to our customers, and we are proud to be a part of Huntsville's continuing success," stated David Anderson, President of Invariant.
Torch
, a 100% employee-owned services and solutions defense contractor, is adding a sixth location to their Huntsville headquarters with the occupation of this new space. "This marks the third major development project that Freedom has completed for Torch in South Huntsville in the last six years," said Torch President and CEO John Watson.  "All three have been instrumental in the continued growth of Torch. The Freedom Center serves as the central gathering hub for our more than 850 Huntsville-based employee-owners and their customers; TIPC provides the specialized space needed for our electrical, mechanical, optical, and robotic prototyping efforts; and this facility will provide the much-needed space for limited production of Torch-developed hardware."
"We are happy to be part of the Huntsville community and are excited to be part of this rebirth of South Huntsville," said Bill Roark, co-founder of and CEO of Freedom. Roark added, "We are excited for our community's continued growth and success to come."
TAGS:
Growth

--- Page: https://torchtechnologies.com/news/?page=9 ---



--- Page: https://torchtechnologies.com/news/torch-awarded-tmas2-tenants-task-order/ ---

Torch Awarded TMAS2 Tenants Task Order
Wednesday, April 07, 2021
Torch Technologies (Torch) is pleased to announce the award of a $475 million task order by the Air Force Test Center for advisory and assistance services for the TMAS2 Tenants organizations of the 96th Test Wing located at Eglin Air Force Base, Florida.
The Torch team will provide support to TMAS2 Tenants organizations including AFRL/RW, USSOCOM Det-1, AFNWC/NDB, and ACC/53D with an estimated 500-person workforce per year. The task order has a five- year period of performance, beginning on October 1, 2021.
"This is an exciting award for Torch Technologies and our employee owners," Torch President and CEO John Watson said. "Having spent over half my career directly supporting AFRL and AFTC, this award is particularly important to me and we are honored to have been selected to continue supporting this effort."
TAGS:
U.S. Air Force

--- Page: https://torchtechnologies.com/news/torch-makes-bloomberg-government-top-200-list-for-fifth-consecutive-year/ ---

Torch Makes Bloomberg Government "Top 200" List for Fifth Consecutive Year
Friday, June 11, 2021
Bloomberg Government released its annual "BGOV200" list and
Torch Technologies (Torch)
was ranked #135 of the Top 200. The list ranks the top federal contractors based on prime contracts awarded in fiscal 2020. Torch, a 100% employee-owned business, made the list for the first time in 2017 and this is Torch's fifth consecutive year on the list. Torch was one of four Alabama-headquartered companies named to the list in 2021, and the highest ranked of two Huntsville-headquartered companies on this year's list.
Torch President and CEO John Watson stated, "We are proud that we have again been included on the Bloomberg Government list of the top federal contractors for the fifth consecutive year. We continue to strive to provide the greatest and most cost-efficient solutions to our government customers in support of the Warfighter and our nation."
See the complete list at
BGOV200
.
TAGS:
Customers

--- Page: https://torchtechnologies.com/news/employee-owners-ride-in-face-of-america-gettysburg-challenge/ ---

Employee-Owners Ride in Face of America Gettysburg Challenge
Monday, April 29, 2024
A group of our employee-owners had the opportunity to ride in the Face of America Gettysburg Challenge sponsored by the nonprofit
World T.E.A.M.
The ride honored our military veterans and active duty, both disabled and able-bodied and celebrated the American Spirit by bringing together adaptive and able-body athletes.
Nearly 400 riders started at Arlington National Cemetery, traveled 110 miles in 2 days, crossed 3 states, ending our ride at the Gettysburg National Battlefield.
Torch employee Dan Skane said, "I was inspired by the many adaptive athletes I got to meet along the ride and I had so much fun riding with my awesome Silver Spokes teammates Erin Garrett-Glaspell, Tim Matthews, Tim Barnes, Drew Buchness, Jay Gallamore, Bill Okoniewski, Tim Goodwin, and Tom Smolko. The Silver Spokes raised a combined $23,800 and Torch was the largest single donor to our team. In total, the event raised over $800,000!"
These contributions will make a difference in the lives of those who participate in the many programs supported by World T.E.A.M.
TAGS:

--- Page: https://torchtechnologies.com/news/torch-technologies-named-to-2018-entrepreneur-360-list/ ---

Torch Technologies Named to 2018 Entrepreneur 360 List
Wednesday, December 19, 2018
Torch Technologies was recognized today for the second consecutive year as one of the "Best Entrepreneurial Companies in America" by
Entrepreneur
magazine's
Entrepreneur360™ List
, a premier study delivering the most comprehensive analysis of private companies in America. Based on this study forged by
Entrepreneur
, Torch is recognized as a well-rounded company that has mastered a balance of impact, innovation, growth, leadership, and value. Torch ranked #11 out of 360 organizations this year, up from #16 last year.
"We are proud to have again been recognized by
Entrepreneur
magazine for our unique approach to innovation, growth, leadership, and culture," says Torch President John Watson. "Our continued success as a 100% employee-owned company is thanks to our employee-owners. We are fortunate to be part of a growing group of exceptional people who are innovative and bright, and who make Torch a great place to work."
"Our annual evaluation of vetted data offers a 360-degree analysis of top privately-held companies across a multitude of industries," explains Jason Feifer, editor in chief of Entrepreneur Magazine. "They are deemed successful not only by revenue numbers, but by how well-rounded they are. The companies that make the list have pushed boundaries with their innovative ideas, fostered strong company cultures, impacted their communities for the better, and increased their brand awareness."
Honorees were identified based on the results from a comprehensive study of independently- owned companies, using a proprietary algorithm and other advanced analytics. The algorithm was built on a balanced scorecard designed to measure five metrics reflecting major pillars of entrepreneurship--innovation, growth, leadership, impact, and business valuation.
For additional details on the E360 List and the companies recognized, visit:
entrepreneur.com/360
TAGS:
Growth

--- Page: https://torchtechnologies.com/news/torch-named-to-nceo’s-2022-employee-ownership-100-list/ ---

Torch Named to NCEO’s 2022 Employee Ownership 100 List
Thursday, September 29, 2022
Congratulations Torch employee-owners! This is a timely achievement as we celebrate our 20
th
anniversary year starting in October. Thanks to all of you as we celebrate and reiterate our commitment to finding ways to sustain and grow our 100% employee-owned ESOP now and for the next generation as an Evergreen-certified company. Your continued support and dedication to our customer’s mission and Torch Culture is a key part of our success as Team Torch.
A message from Torch Co-Founder, Bill Roark:
“Our goal for Torch was always to be a long-term 100% employee-owned ESOP company. We want to thank all our Starfish, Torch, and Freedom family for your commitment. We are all employee-owners. Our success as a company truly is about all of us working together. We look forward to the years to come. Together, we are lighting the pathway of freedom!”
****
The NCEO's 2022 Employee Ownership 100 list includes the nation's largest companies that are at least 50% owned by an employee stock ownership plan (ESOP) or other broad-based employee ownership plan. Some like Torch are 100% employee-owned.
SEE THE LIST:
The Employee Ownership 100: America's Largest Majority Employee-Owned Companies | NCEO
TAGS:
Awards and Recognition

--- Page: https://torchtechnologies.com/news/torch-and-kids-to-love-announce-first-safe-haven-baby-box-in-the-state-of-alabama/ ---

Torch and Kids to Love Announce First Safe Haven Baby Box in the State of Alabama
Thursday, January 11, 2024
Kids to Love is proud to announce the first Safe Haven Baby Box in the state of Alabama is open in the city of Madison.
The box is at Madison Fire Station #1, which is located at 101 Mill Road in Madison. A ribbon cutting was held the afternoon of Jan. 10.
Kids to Love began working to expand the state’s Safe Haven law in the spring of 2023, when it became apparent that changing abortion laws would lead to more children in need of a loving home in Alabama. Senator Larry Stutts helped us get the ball rolling and Rep. Donna Givens got the bill passed. The Legislature passed House Bill 473 later that year, expanding the law to allow a mother to surrender a child less than 45 days old to fire stations that are staffed 24 hours a day, seven days a week year-round, provided they have at least one emergency medical services personnel.
“The Safe Haven Baby Box provides a vital resource to our community, especially for the most fragile of our numbers,” said Madison Mayor Paul Finley. “We hope if ever the situation calls for use of the Safe Haven location at Fire Station 1, any mother-in-crisis can be assured their little-one will be cared for by the trained and compassionate hands of Madison Fire and Rescue. We extend sincere gratitude to the Kids to Love Foundation for leading fundraising efforts for this cause and thank everyone involved in establishing this Safe Haven location in the City of Madison.”
The boxes, which are mounted outside of a building, lock once a baby has been placed inside and the door is closed. An alarm alerts medical staff on site, and they are able to secure the newborn from inside the building.
“Our team at Madison Fire and Rescue is dedicated to providing lifesaving services across our community,” said Madison Fire & Rescue Chief David Bailey. “Partnering with the Safe Haven team, Kids to Love, and Madison Hospital helps us serve the City of Madison in an incredibly impactful way. We are thrilled to join the ranks of Safe Haven Baby Box locations throughout the nation. Our First Responders are trained in providing infant critical care and on the Safe Haven Law to provide support for anonymous mothers-in-crisis.”
In addition to Kids to Love spearheading the effort to expand the Safe Haven law, Kids to Love was able to secure funding to place more baby boxes in cities across Alabama.
Prattville also will have a box operational soon, and eight other Alabama cities will have boxes, including Gadsden, Tuscaloosa, and Opelika.
There are so many people who helped make the baby boxes happen. Adoption attorney and child advocate Doug Bachuss supported in this process and made all the trips to Montgomery with us.Beth & Devin Whitaker helped our team get to Montgomery to educate lawmakers for the need of another option for women to safely surrender their babies when they are not ready to parent.
We also want to honor the Pilot Family and their daughter, Nikki Pilot Carlise, who made the ultimate life-giving sacrifice for her child. The Pilots and the Carlises were the first to step us and say yes and have personally funded 10 boxes that will be installed across the state.
Bill Roark with Torch Technologies wanted to make sure he covered the cost of Baby Boxes where his employees work, so he sponsored three more, including the one in Madison.
“We knew there would be a need for these baby boxes in Alabama,” said Kids to Love Founder and CEO Lee Marshall. “We worked quickly on a plan to get these boxes made and distributed in places across the state where they are needed most. We are thankful that the city of Madison saw the need as well.
“We also are grateful that our donors saw the need and made a generous donation that will ensure mothers have a safe and anonymous way to turn their children over to agencies that will work together in the children’s best interests.”
Safe Haven Baby Boxes was founded by Monica Kelsey and has built boxes that are available to parents in 15 states, including Alabama. Safe Haven also operates a 24-hour hotline for mothers in crisis and has a goal of protecting newborns and letting birth parents know they are not alone.
TAGS:

--- Page: https://torchtechnologies.com/news/torch-receives-colorado-springs-best-in-business-award/ ---

Torch Receives Colorado Springs "Best in Business" Award
Thursday, June 25, 2020
Torch Technologies is proud to announce that it has been selected for a "Best in Business" award in Colorado Springs. Torch was selected as the third place "Best in Business" award recipient in the Cybersecurity & Homeland Security category.
The awards program, held at Almagre and virtually for those who wanted to watch from the comfort of their own home, was hosted by the Colorado Springs Business Journal, on June 24, 2020. Selections for the Best in Business awards were based on Colorado Springs Business Journal reader votes for businesses in each category, and the top three companies from each category were awarded.
Torch President and CEO John Watson said, "We are honored to be recognized as a Best in Business in Colorado Springs recipient, especially during this unprecedented time. Great people make up the core of every good company and great people shine during a time of crisis. We are very fortunate to have great people who care about our mission, our community and our company; and who have shone brightly over the past few months as we have all navigated this COVID-19 pandemic."
TAGS:
Company Culture

--- Page: https://torchtechnologies.com/news/?page=2 ---



--- Page: https://torchtechnologies.com/news/torch-team-raises-63k-for-2019-huntsville-heart-and-stroke-walk/ ---

Torch Team Raises $63K for 2019 Huntsville Heart and Stroke Walk
Monday, April 15, 2019
2019 Torch Heart Walk Team
Torch employee-owners have a heart for giving back to their communities, and this year's Huntsville Heart Walk was an example of their heart for helping others. Through Torch Helps, Torch in Action, and Torch corporate charitable giving and company-sponsored events, Torch employee-owners and families have set a high standard for involvement and community outreach. Torch employee-owners' participation in the American Heart Association (AHA) Huntsville Heart and Stroke Walk continued this year, with Torch's co-founder, Bill Roark, co-chairing the 2019 Huntsville Heart Walk. The Torch Team had 150 members and Torch employee-owners, family, and friends joined the Torch Team on Saturday, April 13
th
in downtown Huntsville for the annual event. The Torch Team was the largest team, and the top fundraising company, raising $63,000 through 196 donations and contributing to the more than $510,000 that was raised by AHA during the walk. This year, Torch's CEO and Co-Founder Bill Roark was the Heart Walk's Top Executive Fundraiser, and a Torch employee-owner, Debbie Overcash, was the Top Individual Fundraiser. Like Torch, this event continues to grow each year, and we are proud to be a part of it!
TAGS:
Company Culture

--- Page: https://torchtechnologies.com/news/bill-roark-announces-retirement/ ---

Bill Roark Announces Retirement
Thursday, March 06, 2025
Roark to Continue Board Roles and Serve as Advisor
HUNTSVILLE, Ala., March 3, 2025 – Starfish Holdings (Starfish), the parent company of Torch Technologies, Freedom Real Estate & Capital, LLC, and SIMVANA, today announced that Starfish Founder Bill Roark has announced his retirement effective immediately. Roark will continue to serve as Executive Chairman of the Starfish Holdings Board of Directors and as a member of the Freedom Real Estate Board of Directors. He will remain as CEO of Freedom Real Estate & Capital, LLC through a transitionary period. Additionally, he will serve in an advisory/consultant role to promote the continued growth of the Starfish enterprise.
“When Don Holder and I founded Torch Technologies in 2002, the goal was to create an employee-owned company with an approach that would allow the founders to retire without having to sell the company. We have now successfully achieved that goal,” said Starfish Executive Chairman Bill Roark. “This is a significant milestone for any employee-owned company.”
“We have been working toward this turning point for many years said Starfish CEO John Watson. “We have an experienced, stable management team in place at each of the companies that will enable us to move through this transition with no interruption in day-to-day activities.”
“We want to thank Bill for all he has done for each of the companies in the Starfish enterprise. Each of our employee-owners owes a great deal to Bill and Don and their vision for what could be achieved through employee ownership,” said Watson. “We wish Bill nothing but the best as he eases into retirement, and I look forward to continuing to work with him on the Starfish Board of Directors and in his new advisory role.”
About Starfish Holdings
Starfish Holdings, Inc. (Starfish) is the parent company of Torch Technologies, Freedom Real Estate & Capital, LLC, and SIMVANA. The company is an S corporation owned by the Starfish Employee Stock Ownership Plan (ESOP) and Trust with a focus on growing the retirement portfolios of the employee-owners of its subsidiaries. Starfish is committed to remaining an Evergreen enterprise through sustainable processes, ensuring employee ownership and financial well-being, supporting community well-being, and enabling customer and partner success, all while operating with integrity. To learn more, visit starfishholdings.com.
TAGS:
Leadership

--- Page: https://torchtechnologies.com/news/torch-supports-2018-liz-hurley-ribbon-run/ ---

Torch Supports 2018 Liz Hurley Ribbon Run
Monday, October 22, 2018
Torch employee-owners and their families weathered the storms on Saturday, October 20
st
, to support the 2018 Liz Hurley Ribbon Run. Torch participants included Torch employee-owners, family, and friends who raised a total of $10,000 for the Liz Hurley Breast Cancer Fund at the Huntsville Hospital Foundation. The Torch team was happy to be a part of this event and is looking forward to growing the participation numbers and donation amount for next year's event! With these fundraising efforts, the Huntsville Hospital Foundation will be able to provide lifesaving diagnostic equipment for Huntsville and Madison Hospital Breast Centers.
TAGS:
Company Culture

--- Page: https://torchtechnologies.com/news/torch-named-one-of-the-countrys-best-workplaces-in-consulting-professional-services-for-fourth-consecutive-year/ ---

Torch Named One of the Country's Best Workplaces in Consulting & Professional Services for Fourth Consecutive Year
Tuesday, April 23, 2019
Great Place to Work and FORTUNE have again honored Torch Technologies as one of the
Best Workplaces in Consulting and Professional Services
, marking Torch's fourth consecutive year on this list. The ranking considered feedback representing over 339,000 employees working at Great Place to Work-Certified organizations in the Consulting and Professional Services industry. Great Place to Work, a global people analytics and consulting firm, evaluated more than 60 elements of team members' experience on the job. These included the extent to which employees trust leaders, the respect with which people are treated, the fairness of workplace decisions, and how much camaraderie there is among the team. Rankings are based on employees' feedback and reward companies who best include all employees, no matter who they are or what they do for the organization. Torch Technologies took the #2 spot on the Small and Medium Companies list.
"We are proud of our culture that benefits not only our customers and our employee-owners, but also our communities," says Torch President and CEO John Watson. "It is an honor that our employees continue to rate our workplace highly, and that Great Place to Work® and
Fortune
are recognizing our positive culture for the fourth consecutive year."
The Best Workplaces in Consulting and Professional Services stand out for exceling in a competitive industry.
"Consulting and Professional Services companies operate in some of the most competitive spaces and endure the challenges of unpredictable and rapidly changing markets," said Michael Bush, CEO of Great Place to Work. "The Best Workplaces on this list have invested in the professional development and personal care of their employees; which have become crucial parts of their value proposition that separate them from the competition in recruiting and retaining talent."
The Best Workplaces in Consulting and Professional Services is one of a
series of rankings by Great Place to Work
and FORTUNE based on employee feedback from Great Place to Work-Certified™ organizations. Torch Technologies also was ranked as a Best Workplace in Consulting & Professionals Services in 2016, 2017, and 2018, as well as a Small and Medium Workplace by Great Place to Work and FORTUNE in 2016, 2017, and 2018, in addition to a Best Workplace for Millennials in 2018 by Great Place to Work and FORTUNE.
TAGS:
Company Growth

--- Page: https://torchtechnologies.com/news/torch-donates-to-ktech’s-vr-lab/ ---

Torch Donates to KTECH’s VR Lab
Monday, February 12, 2024
Torch Technologies is excited to extend its support to KTECH’s VR lab by providing Meta Quest headsets for their students. KTECH offers hands-on, interactive, one-on-one instruction, connecting students with employment opportunities. These headsets will support the school’s mission of equipping students with essential job skills sought after by employers.
Learn more:
https://www.goktech.org/
TAGS:
Community

--- Page: https://torchtechnologies.com/news/torch-technologies-awarded-iac-mac-prime-contract/ ---

Torch Technologies Awarded IAC MAC Prime Contract
Thursday, December 05, 2024
$33 Billion Contract to Provide Mission-critical Research and Development Support Services Across the Department of Defense
HUNTSVILLE, Ala. And DETROIT, Mich., December 5, 2024 –
Torch Technologies, one of the nation’s leading defense contractors, today announced that it was awarded a prime contract under Pool 1 of the Department of Defense Information Analysis Center (DoDIAC) Multiple Award Contract (MAC). The indefinite-delivery/indefinite-quantity (ID/IQ) contract carries a $33 billion ceiling and supports research and development across the DoD. Work will be performed in various locations, determined at the individual task order level, and is expected to be completed Sept. 29, 2027. The Air Force Installation Contracting Agency (AFICA) 774th Enterprise Sourcing Squadron, Offutt Air Force Base, Nebraska, is the contracting activity.
“We are excited to be one of the Pool 1 prime awardees for this important contracting vehicle. The DoDIAC IAC MAC contract selects the best of the best in research and development to provide services throughout the DoD and we are proud to be included in this group,” said Torch Technologies President Brad Walker. “This contract will enable us to serve a more diverse customer base in a broader geographic region with our innovative services and solutions designed to enhance the capabilities of the warfighter.”
About the DoDIAC Program
The DoDIAC program operates as a part of Defense Technical Information Center and provides technical data management and research support for DoD and federal government users. Established in 1946, the DoDIAC program serves the DoD science & technology (S&T) and acquisition communities to drive innovation and technological developments by enhancing collaboration through integrated scientific and technical information development and dissemination for the DoD and broader S&T community.
About Torch Technologies
Torch Technologies is a 100 percent employee-owned business dedicated to providing superior research, development, and engineering services to the Department of Defense. The services we provide directly support the men and women who serve our country. Torch is part of the Starfish Holdings family of businesses that also includes Freedom Real Estate & Capital, LLC, and SIMVANA. To learn more, visit
TorchTechnologies.com
.
TAGS:

--- Page: https://torchtechnologies.com/news/torch-13th-annual-golf-tournament-raises-$100,000/ ---

Torch 13th Annual Golf Tournament Raises $100,000
Friday, September 15, 2023
Torch would like to thank everyone who came out for our 13th Annual Golf Tournament benefiting Village of Promise!
Through the combined generosity of our incredible sponsors, golfers, volunteers, Torch’s employee-owners, and Board of Directors, as well as the employee-owners and Board of Directors of our sister and parent companies Freedom Estate and Starfish Holdings, we were able to present the Village of Promise with a $100,000 donation!
This donation was made possible by all who gave their time and resources and will support Village of Promise in their mission to break the cycle of poverty, one family at a time.
Thank you to our volunteers and sponsors for choosing to invest in our community!
You can learn more about Village of Promise
HERE.
TAGS:

--- Page: https://torchtechnologies.com/news/torch-colorado-springs-hosts-5th-annual-charity-golf-tournament/ ---

Torch Colorado Springs Hosts 5th Annual Charity Golf Tournament
Friday, July 21, 2023
Our Torch office in Colorado Springs hosted its 5th Annual Charity Golf Tournament in Colorado Springs in July, supporting Safe Passage. Each year Safe Passage serves more than 1000 children and non-offending caregivers during abuse investigations.
A majority of the children they serve have suffered sexual abuse. Safe Passage is the authoritative regional resource for child sexual assault services, and works with medical, counseling and law enforcement services and agencies to resolve abuse.
Torch raised over $25,000 this year, a more than a 50% increase over last year.
These funds will provide 100+ hours of therapy, medical treatment, home supplies, clothing and much more to children affected by abuse in the Colorado Springs and surrounding area.
The tournament was held at the Bear Dance Golf Course, in nearby Larkspur, Colorado. We sold out the event and 124 players participated.
Torch recruited a number of DoD and local community sponsors, including Edward Jones, ERC, HTS, MTSI, CSPD, Colorado College, Blattner Law Firm, Gasper Law Group, Synergy One Lending.
Colorado Springs has already begun planning next July’s tournament at Bear Dance!
TAGS:

--- Page: https://torchtechnologies.com/news/torch-breast-friends-raises-over-$33,000-for-the-liz-hurley-breast-cancer-fund/ ---

Torch Breast Friends Raises over $33,000 for the Liz Hurley Breast Cancer Fund
Monday, October 23, 2023
Torch Breast Friends was honored to raise over $33,000 for the Liz Hurley Breast Cancer Fund at
Huntsville Hospital Foundation
! The run proved to be a tremendous success, drawing in more than 6,200 participants on a beautiful morning dedicated to raising awareness for breast cancer. Torch Breast Friends had its largest team to date, winning first for the large team fundraiser!
Proceeds from the 2023 Liz Hurley Ribbon Run will provide for the top priority needs for Huntsville Hospital Breast Center, including an additional ultrasound machine and table with a specialty mattress. This new, high-tech equipment will reduce wait times so patients have access to the diagnostic screening they need, detecting breast cancer as soon as possible.
A special shout-out to our amazing cancer survivors, team members and donors. Every mile and every dollar make a difference!
TAGS:
Community

--- Page: https://torchtechnologies.com/news/torch-delivers-supplies-to-north-carolina/ ---

Torch Delivers Supplies to North Carolina
Monday, October 14, 2024
Thank you to all those who donated items for North Carolina disaster relief. This spark ignited an outpouring of generosity and as a result, we were able to deliver two trailers of supplies to our neighbors in need. Your efforts are greatlyappreciated. We would also like to thank Yulista for their contributions!
TAGS:
Community

--- Page: https://torchtechnologies.com/news/?page=8 ---



--- Page: https://torchtechnologies.com/news/torch-technologies-announces-staff-promotions/ ---

Torch Technologies Announces Staff Promotions
Monday, January 27, 2025
HUNTSVILLE, Ala., January 27, 2025 –
Torch Technologies, one of the nation’s leading defense contractors, today announced several staff promotions further strengthening the management team. All of these promotions are effective immediately.
“We look forward to seeing the impact these leaders will make as they take on new challenges and opportunities within Torch,” said Torch President Brad Walker. “These promotions are part of our ongoing strategy to remain a 100 percent employee-owned, Evergreen, Public Benefit Corporation.”
The following individuals have been promoted:
Brady Porter
has been promoted to Senior Vice President, ACE Group Lead.
In this role, he leads a team of over 650 dedicated employee-owners in an organization that generates $380 Million in annual revenue and spans 11 locations across the US and overseas test ranges. With over 26 years in the defense industry, Porter is a technical expert in the architecture, design, and development of enterprise applications used to assess the performance of the nation’s Missile Defense System. Many of the systems he designed have supported the performance assessment of every Missile Defense exercise over the past two decades. He holds a bachelor’s degree in Electrical Engineering from the University of Tennessee, Knoxville.
Amanda Clark has been promoted to Vice President, Enterprise Program Management.
In this role, she is responsible for working closely with operating groups executing Torch contracts. Clark plays a critical role in the capture and teaming of new business opportunities, which is essential for company growth. She manages a contract portfolio of over $3B for multiple Army,Air Force, and Navy customers. Previously, Clark served as the Program Manager for the EXPRESS Program and as the Torch Executive Chief of Staff, working directly with executive leadership to develop corporate strategic goals and monitor the progress toward completion. She has over 25 years of experience in the Automotive and Defense industries, providing Program Management, Business Development, Product Development, Quality Assurance, and Product Testing. She holds both a bachelor’s degree in Chemical Engineering and a master’s degree in Engineering Management from the University of Alabama in Huntsville.
Bill Koons has been promoted to Vice President, Business Development.
In this role, he is responsible for the process of identification, qualification, and capture of all corporate business development opportunities, as well as the generation of qualified pipeline growth necessary to meet or exceed the company’s strategic business plans. He also plans and recommends business development and marketing strategies to achieve maximum customer and market penetration and to drive tactical and strategic growth in multiple markets and locations. Before joining Torch in 2018, Koons held leadership positions at General Atomics, Ducommun, Miltec Corporation, Optimization Technologies, and Teledyne Brown Engineering. He holds a bachelor’s degree in Electrical Engineering from Auburn University, a master’s degree in Engineering from the University of Alabama in Huntsville and is PMP
®
certified.
Kenneth W. Lones has been promoted to Vice President, Corporate Administration.
In this role, he provides leadership and coordination of corporate administration functions including Contracts, Subcontracts, Shipping & Receiving, Purchasing, Security, and Facilities. He previously served as Senior Director, Corporate Administration and Senior Director of Contracts. Prior to joining Torch in 2004, he served as Contracts Manager for Computer Sciences Corporation and Nichols Research Corporation. Lones has more than 30 years of experience in the defense industry, specializing in contract procurement law, export compliance, and corporate administration. He holds a bachelor’s degree in Psychology and a B.S.Ed. in Social Sciences from Athens State University.
About Torch Technologies
Torch Technologies is a 100 percent employee-owned business dedicated to providing superior research, development, and engineering services to the Department of Defense. Our services directly support the men and women who serve our country. Torch is part of the Starfish Holdings family of businesses, which also includes Freedom Real Estate & Capital, LLC and SIMVANA. To learn more, visit
TorchTechnologies.com
.
TAGS:

--- Page: https://torchtechnologies.com/news/bill-roark-named-to-hudsonalpha-board-of-directors/ ---

Bill Roark named to HudsonAlpha Board of Directors
Tuesday, May 09, 2023
The HudsonAlpha Institute for Biotechnology named Bill Roark to its
Board of Directors
at a regularly scheduled meeting of the Institute’s leadership.
Roark is the co-founder and former CEO of
Torch Technologies, Inc.
, and has over 30 years of Department of Defense-related experience. Roark is also the founder and CEO of
Starfish Holdings
, founder of
Freedom Real Estate & Capital
, and a Board of Experts Member at
Birthing of Giants
.
As the CEO of Torch, Roark guided the company to national recognition as one of the Top 100 Fastest Growing Companies in America. Prior to founding Torch, Roark was the Senior Vice President for the Camber Corporation. Before that, he was with the Nichols Research Corporation. Roark graduated with an MS in Physics from the University of Kentucky and a BS in Mathematics from Cumberland College.
In addition to his support for HudsonAlpha, Roark has been a philanthropic supporter of many organizations in the Huntsville community, including the Community Foundation of Greater Huntsville and Huntsville Hospital.
TAGS:

--- Page: https://torchtechnologies.com/news/torch-technologies-named-to-inaugural-best-evergreen-companies-list/ ---

Torch Named to Inaugural Best Evergreen Companies List
Tuesday, July 02, 2024
HUNTSVILLE, Ala. July 2, 2024 –
Torch Technologies, one of the nation’s leading defense contractors, today announced the company has been named to the Tugboat Institute’s® inaugural Best Evergreen Companies™ list. Each of the companies on the list exemplifies excellence across all of the Evergreen 7Ps® principles. Their dedication to their business excellence is characterized by determination, patience, and an unwavering desire to improve.
As reflected in the list below, outstanding Evergreen companies exist in every industry from finance to technology, and from consumer-packaged goods to construction. Their sizes, ages, ownership structures, and geographies vary widely as well, confirming that excellent Evergreen companies can and do exist everywhere. The winners are listed alphabetically, not in rank order, so each of these remarkable companies can be celebrated equally.
“We are pleased to recognize Torch Technologies as one of the inaugural members of the Best Evergreen Companies List,” said Dave Whorton, CEO, Tugboat Institute.
"In 2023, Torch Technologies became Certified Evergreen after completing a rigorous assessment of their integration of the Evergreen 7Ps principles. They exemplify the belief that being of service to  their employees leads to long-term service to customers, suppliers, and communities, ultimately building companies that add significant, lasting value and make a difference in the world."
The 2024 Best Evergreen Companies are:
Awesome
Betts Company
Bishop-Wisecarver
ECRS
Edward Jones
Enterprise Mobility
Essential Ingredients
High Plains Bank
In Time Tec
John Burns Research & Consulting
Meijer
Radio Flyer
Redeemers Group
SAS Institute
Savage Services
Smiley Technologies
SRC Holdings Corporation
Stotz Equipment
Supportworks
Telligen
Test Double
Text-Em-All
The Motz Corporation
Torch Technologies
“We are thrilled to be named to the inaugural Best Evergreen Companies list,” said Torch Technologies President Brad Walker. “This is truly an honor. It is also a testament to the commitment of Torch and each of our employee-owners to the Evergreen principles and to our desire to remain a company for 100+ years.”
About the Best Evergreen Companies List
The Best Evergreen Companies list gives the Tugboat Institute an opportunity to celebrate and elevate wonderful Evergreen companies and our Evergreen movement, in a language that society understands. By design, the Best Evergreen Companies list is not listed in rank order to avoid unnecessary competition between these exceptional companies that earned a spot on the list, allowing each to celebrated equally. Companies become eligible for inclusion on this list by either becoming Certified Evergreen® or by hosting two-and-a-half-day Tugboat Institute Exemplar Visit. Both of these paths require a deep, introspective dive into practices across all of the Evergreen 7Ps principles and provide tangible measures of Evergreen maturity across each of the principles and into overall excellence.
In the years and decades to come, the vision is for this awards program to gain increasing awareness and scope over time, moving from a single list to several that celebrate and recognize even more Evergreen companies across various sizes, industries, demographics, and geographic regions. Tugboat believes that lifting one Evergreen company lifts up all Evergreen companies and is pleased to have created this new program to do just that. To learn more, visit
www.tugboatinstitute.com
About the Torch Technologies
Torch Technologies is a 100 percent employee-owned business dedicated to providing superior research, development, and engineering services to the Department of Defense. The services we provide directly support the men and women who serve our country. Torch is part of the Starfish Holdings family of businesses that also includes Freedom Real Estate & Capital, LLC, and SIMVANA. To learn more, visit
TorchTechnologies.com
.
TAGS:

--- Page: https://torchtechnologies.com/news/torch-welcomes-congressman-chuck-fleischmann/ ---

Torch Welcomes Congressman Chuck Fleischmann
Tuesday, October 15, 2024
We were pleased to welcome Congressman Chuck Fleischmann to Torch earlier this week. Representative Fleischmann represents the 3rd District of Tennessee and serves on the Appropriations Committee and the House Committee on Science, Space & Technology. During his visit, we shared with Congressman Fleischmann the benefits of employee-owned companies and the unique challenges they face. We also provided a tour of our Technology Innovation and Prototyping Center where we highlighted work we are performing across multiple DoE National Laboratories and our efforts to sustain critical DoD capabilities.
TAGS:

--- Page: https://torchtechnologies.com/news/built-with-purpose-now-available/ ---

Built with Purpose Now Available
Monday, May 13, 2024
The wait is finally over. Bill Roark’s book, Built with Purpose: How Our Employee-Owned Business Changed What it Means to Work and Why, officially hit the shelves at Amazon this morning. You can find the book here. The book chronicles local entrepreneur and Torch Technologies Co-Founder Bill Roark realizing his dream of building an employee-owned company whose success benefits everyone who works there—not just the founders.
“This book outlines the struggles we faced and the success we enjoyed as a young company,” said Torch Co-founder and Author Bill Roark. “It is my hope that this will not only be a walk down memory lane for those who were part of the company in the early years, but it will serve as a lasting reminder for all future Torch employees as to how employee ownership has not only been the foundation of our success, but has enabled us to build a unique corporate culture where everyone works for the common good.”
A number of local book signings have already been scheduled including the following:
• May 20, 6:00 – 7:30 p.m. at Yellowhammer Brewery
• May 23, 5:00 – 7:00 p.m. at Harrison Brothers Hardware
• June 4, 5:35 – 6:30 p.m. at Rocket City Trash Pandas
If your group or organization would like to schedule Bill as a speaker or for a book signing, please contact Tammie Dodson at 256-932-6079.
About the Book The book chronicles the formation and first decade of the history of Torch Technologies. The Torch story validates that there is a better way to build a business—one where everyone is truly engaged and invested in working toward the long-term success of the company—while also keeping generosity as a core value.
About the Author Bill Roark is the cofounder of Torch Technologies, Inc. (Torch), the founder and CEO of Starfish Holdings. Inc, the parent company of Torch, and the founder of Freedom Real Estate & Capital, LLC. Bill has also been involved as a business coach and partner in a local brewery. Yellowhammer brews are local favorites.
TAGS:

--- Page: https://torchtechnologies.com/news/?page=7 ---



--- Page: https://torchtechnologies.com/news/torch-awarded-s3i-oasis-hwil-missile-task-order/ ---

Torch Awarded S3I OASIS HWIL Missile Task Order
Friday, May 14, 2021
Torch Technologies (Torch) is pleased to announce the award of a $1.1 billion task order by U.S. Army Combat Capabilities Development Command (DEVCOM) Aviation and Missile Center (AvMC) Systems Simulation Software and Integration Directorate (S3I) for Hardware in the Loop (HWIL) Missile. The task order has a seven-year period of performance and will be executed primarily in Huntsville, Ala.
The Torch team will provide various types of simulation support to S3I customers for development and improvements to their systems to include labs/facilities, missile systems, unmanned platforms and targets, threats, and HWIL/SIL Simulation infrastructure and tools.
"This contract allows Torch and our partners to continue to support the DEVCOM AvMC S3I HWIL customers," said Torch President and CEO John Watson. "We look forward to advancing and testing the technologies that enable and protect our nation's warfighters."
TAGS:
U.S. Army

--- Page: https://torchtechnologies.com/news/torch-selected-as-a-best-place-to-work-for-third-consecutive-year/ ---

Torch selected as a "Best Place to Work" for Third Consecutive Year
Tuesday, April 10, 2018
Torch Technologies is proud to announce that it has once again been recognized as one of the "Best Places to Work" in Huntsville/Madison County. Torch was honored as a "Best Place to Work" in the x-large business category of 251+ local employees at the eleventh annual Best Places to Work awards luncheon on Tuesday, April 10.
The program, held at the Von Braun Center North Hall, was hosted by the Chamber of Commerce of Huntsville/Madison County. More than 170 companies were nominated, and 15 were named as the "Best Places to Work." This is the fifth time Torch has been named a "Best Place to Work" by the Chamber of Commerce of Huntsville/Madison County, receiving recognition in 2008, 2012, 2016, and again in 2017.
Quantum Workplace, a national company that specializes in measuring workplace satisfaction, measured and selected companies based on the following criteria: team effectiveness, retention probability, alignment with goals, trust with co-workers, individual contribution, manager effectiveness, trust in senior leaders, feeling valued, work engagement and people practices. The selections were based solely on anonymous employee survey inputs, and the top three companies from each category were awarded.
Torch President John Watson said, "We are honored to be recognized as a Best Place to Work in Huntsville/Madison County for the third consecutive year. Great people make up the core of every great company. Thank you to all of our employee-owners who truly make Torch the best place to work."
TAGS:
Company Culture

--- Page: https://torchtechnologies.com/news/torch-makes-washington-technology-top-100-government-contractors-list-for-ninth-consecutive-year/ ---

Torch Makes Washington Technology "Top 100 Government Contractors" List for Ninth Consecutive Year
Wednesday, June 28, 2023
Washington Technology released its annual "Top 100" list  and
Torch Technologies (Torch)
was ranked #67 of the Top 100. The list ranks the largest government contractors by their prime contract dollars in IT, telecommunications, consulting, professional services, engineering, and other technology driven products and services. Torch, a 100% employee-owned business, has made this list for the past nine years.
Torch President Brad Walker stated, "We are thrilled to be recognized as one of the largest professional services prime contractors to the Federal Government for the ninth consecutive year. This recognition is important to Torch as it reflects the confidence placed in our company thanks to our invaluable employee-owners and how they support our customers and the warfighter."
TAGS:
Awards and Recognition

--- Page: https://torchtechnologies.com/news/2020-best-workplaces-in-consulting-and-professional-services/ ---

Torch Technologies Named One of the 2020 Best Workplaces in Consulting and Professional Services by Great Place to Work® for Fifth Consecutive Year
Thursday, April 23, 2020
Great Place to Work has once again honored Torch Technologies (Torch) as one of the
2020 Best Workplaces in Consulting & Professional Services
. The ranking is representing more than 357,000 employees working in the consulting or professional services industry in the United States. Great Place to Work, a global people analytics and consulting firm, evaluated more than 60 elements of team members' experience on the job. These included the extent to which employees trust leaders, the respect with which people are treated, the fairness of workplace decisions, and how much camaraderie there is among the team. Rankings are based on employees' feedback and reward companies who best include all employees, no matter who they are or what they do for the organization. Torch took the No. 20 spot on the Large Companies list.
"During these unprecedented times, we are especially proud of the special culture that we have at Torch. Throughout this pandemic, we have witnessed extraordinary displays of collaboration, innovation, personal integrity, and determination within our employee-owners," said Torch President and CEO John Watson. "It is an honor to be able to work with such an exceptional team every day. We are also honored that our employee-owners continue to rate our workplace highly, and that Great Place to Work® is recognizing our positive culture for the fifth consecutive year."
The Best Workplaces in Consulting & Professional Services stand out for excelling in one of the nation's most competitive marketplaces.
"COVID-19 creates very unpredictable and rapidly changing markets for Consulting & Professional Services companies," said Michael Bush, CEO of Great Place to Work. "Companies on this list stand out for the high level of trust they have built with their entire workforce. High-trust, For All cultures enable these organizations today to quickly adjust to remote work arrangements and to successfully navigate through uncertain times."
The Best Workplaces in Consulting & Professional Services is one of a
series of rankings by Great Place to Work
based on employee feedback from Great Place to Work-Certified™ organizations. Torch Technologies was also ranked as a Best Workplace in Consulting & Professionals Services in 2016-2019, as well as a Small and Medium Workplace by Great Place to Work and FORTUNE in 2016-2018, in addition to a Best Workplace for Millennials in 2018 by Great Place to Work and FORTUNE.
TAGS:
Best Place to Work